B havartha R atnakara 


C ontents 


1. Lagna 

- A ries - T aurus- G emini - Cancer - Leo - V irgo 

- Libra - Scorpio - Sagittarius- Capricorn - Aquarius- Pisces 

2. D hana yogas 

- Combinations for poverty - Education - T astes and speech 

3. B rothers 

4. Fortune, luxuries and children 

5. E nemies and diseases 

6. Seventh house 

7. H ealth and longevity 

8. Fortunate combinations 

9. Rajayogas 

10. Combinationsfor dips in sacred waters 

11. Combinationsfor death 

12. Results of dasas 

13. 0 rdinary combinations 

14. G rahamalika yogas 

15. Planetary rulerships, etc. 


C hapter 1 

Lagna 


A ries: 

1. A Sun-M oon combination confers rajayoga 

2. V enus is a maraka 

3. J upiter becomes a maraka if he occupies Capricorn 

4. A J upiter-Saturn association doesn't confer a rajayoga 

5. A n A ries native will have fear of diseases (especially smallpox), weapons and 
injuries 

6. If M ars conjoins M ercury, death by brain disease occurs in his dasa and bhukti 

7. This is the only lagna where it's great if the 2 nd lord is in the 12 th ; this isn't the 
case with 



any other lagnas 

8. A M ars-V enuscombination can be both favorable and fatal 

9. M ars, when conjoined with J upiter and V enus in T aurus, becomes a yogakaraka 

10. If the above combination occurs in G emini, there isn't any yoga 

11. If M arsconjoinsj upiter in Cancer, he becomes a yogakaraka 

12. M ars will prove a benefic during hisdasa if he's in Leo 

13. J upiter in A quarius won't automatically give good results in his dasa 

14. A M ercury-M ars combination in Virgo gives the native skin diseases, eruptions 
and wounds. 

15. The native will possess self-earned wealth if M ars and Venus are in Libra 

16. M ars, if in conjunction with Sun and V enus in Scorpio, will confer some fame 

17. There's a special yoga produced when M ars, Sun and J upiter are in Sagittarius, 
with V enus 

and Saturn in Libra 

18. V enus confers a rajayoga if he's in lagna with the Sun and unaspected by 
J upiter 

19. Sun will become a yogakaraka when aspected byj upiter; the same can't be said 
for Venus when she is aspected byj upiter 

20. A Sun-M ercury-V enus combination in A quarius is a fortunate combination, 
with all three conferring riches during their dasas and bhuktis 

21. W hen Sun is in lagna and M oon in Cancer, the native enjoys a rajayoga 

22. A Sun-J upiter-V enuscombination in Capricorn helps the native enjoy dips in 
holy rivers like the G ai ga 


T aurus: 

1. N either is Saturn a yogakaraka, nor do Sun and M ercury confer any fortunes if 
they're in lagna 

2. If there's a M ars-J upiter combination in Capricorn or R ahu is in A quarius, the 
native enjoy dips in holy rivers like the G anga 

3. M oon is capable of producing a yoga when posited in L eo and aspected by 
either J upiter or M ercury 

4. M ars, when in 7 th , is a benefic. If Sun and J upiter are conjoined in Pisces, long 
life is indicated 

5. A J upiter-M ercury association causes dhana yoga 

6. The above dhana yoga is destroyed if either planet is aspected by M ars 

7. There will be debts during M ercury's dasa if there's an association between 
M ars, J upiter and 

M ercury 

8. J upiter'sdasa will give mixed results whereas M ars' dasa gives wealth. If 
M ercury is in a quadrant, 

the native is blessed with happiness during its dasa 

9. If M ercury and V enus are in lagna and J upiter is in Scorpio, M ercury dasa will 


2 



be fortunate 

10. If M ars and V enus are in lagna, and J upiter is in Capricorn, both M ercury's and 
J upiter'sdasas will be fortunate 

11. If Saturn, M ercury and M ars are in Capricorn, and R ahu in Pisces, the native 
enjoy dips in holy rivers like the G anga during the dasasof M ars and R ahu 

12. If M oon and V enus are in Libra, with J upiter and M ercury in Pisces, J upiter 
dasa will cause a dhana yoga 

13. Lots of wealth are indicated in the Venus dasa 

14. M oon in lagna isn't very auspicious, and will afflict other dhana yogas present 
in the chart 

15. The native becomes very fortunate if M oon is in the lagna of any sign other 
than T aurus 


Gemini: 

1. The placement of Sun and M ercury in Leo proves fortunate in M ercury's dasa 

2. A V enus-M oon-M ars conjunction in Cancer results in wealth during the V enus 
dasa 

3. There will be mixed resultsduring Saturn dasa if M ars is in Cancer, with M oon 
and Saturn in Capricorn 

4. With the above planetary placement, M ars confers wealth during his dasa 

5. If M ars and Saturn are in Cancer and M oon in Capricorn, the native's prosperity 
and wealth get mostly destroyed during the dasas of M ars and Saturn 

6. D espite being the lord of 2 nd , M oon isn't a maraka 

7. W hen Saturn is in A quarius and there's a M ars-M oon conjunction in A ries, a 
powerful dhana yoga results 

8. If Saturn and J upiter are in A quarius, the native enjoy dips in holy rivers like the 
G anga during the dasasof J upiter and Saturn 

9. W hen M ercury is in A ries, misunderstandings with elder brother are indicated 

Cancer: 

1. While M ercury proves fruitful, J upiter doesn't cause any yoga 

2. M ars is a yogakaraka, and even more so if posited in either of his own houses 

3. V enus can also be a benefic, but only if he's posited either in L eo or G emini 

4. If M ars, J upiter and M oon are in Leo, with Sun and V enus in Scorpio, the native 
will become wealthy and fortunate 

5. If M ercury and V enus are in Scorpio, M ercury confers fortune during its dasa 

6. If M ercury, V enus and M oon are in G emini, J upiter in Cancer and Sun in A ries, 
the result is a maha rajayoga and will definitely make the native a king 

7. If Sun and M ars are in A ries, the native will always be wealthy. D eath results 
during the J upiter dasa 

8. If M ercury and V enus are in G emini, V enus dasa will prove fortunate 


3 



9. A J upiter-M oon conjunction in lagna will make the native famous and fortunate 

10. W hen M oon is in lagna, rajayogas are produced when either M ars is in 
Capricorn, Saturn is in Libra, or Sun isin A ries 

11. W hen there's a combination of Sun and M ercury in lagna, V enus in L ibra, and 
M oon-M ars-J upiter in T aurus, the native becomes bankrupt during the Sun dasa, 
while other dasas will be good 

12. If M ercury and J upiter are in T aurus, and Saturn and R ahu are in Scorpio, the 
native enjoy dips in holy rivers like the G anga during the R ahu dasa 


Leo: 

1. Sun-M ercury-M ars or Sun-J upiter-M ercury conjunctions indicate wealth, 
whereas only a Sun-M ercury combination indicates moderate fortunes 

2. A J upiter-V enus combine causes destruction of other yogas 

3. V enus can't produce a yoga. H owever, he becomes a benefic when in L ibra but 
a malefic when in T aurus 

4. If there's a Sun-M ercury-M ars conjunction in lagna, the M ercury dasa brings in 
much wealth 

5. The Saturn dasa will be fortunate if there's a Saturn-M ars combination in 
Cancer 

Virgo: 

1. A Sun-M oon-V enus association will bring in lots of wealth during the Sun dasa 

2. The native loses wealth during the V enus dasa. M ixed results can be expected 
during the M oon dasa 

3. W hen M oon and V enus are in Pisces, with J upiter in Cancer and Sun in A ries, 
during the J upiter and V enus dasas, the native will have multiple wives, who will 
all be alive. V irgo natives possess women of high rank 

4. A J upiter-V enus combine in Sagittarius producesfortunesduring their dasas 
and bhuktis 

5. If Saturn isin Cancer, itsdasa will be fruitful 


Libra: 

1. Saturn is a yogakaraka. Though lord of 3 rd and 6 th , J upiter is also capable of 
producing yogas 

2. M ars doesn't become a maraca, although it lords the 2 nd and 7 th houses 

3. If J upiter and V enus are associated or are aspected by Saturn and M ars, during 
thej upiter or V enus dasas and bhuktis, the native suffers from skin infections and 
wounds 


4 



4. If Sun and M ercury are in V irgo and aspected by Saturn, the father will be 
fortunate 

5. If M ars is in association with Sun, Saturn and M ercury, it produces immense 
good 

6. If Sun, M ercury and Saturn are combined with either M oon or M ars, a rajayoga 
is produced 

7. If there's a Sun-V enus-M ercury combination in lagna, the native gets very 
fortunate and wealthy 

8. If in lagna there are M ercury, Saturn and V enus, or the M oon and M ars in 
A ries, the M ercury dasa will prove fruitful 

9. The presence of M ars and M ercury in Leo, J upiter in T aurus and Saturn in 
G emini creates a rajayoga 

10. If M oon is in lagna with J upiter either in V irgo or Pisces, the Saturn dasa brings 
in wealth and fortune 

11. V enus becomes a maraca if he's in the ascendant 

12. If the Saturn is in lagna and M oon in Cancer, a rajayoga results 

13. If Saturn, J upiter, M ercury and M ars are in A quarius, and R ahu is in Cancer, 
the native enjoy dips in holy rivers like the G anga during the R ahu dasa 

Scorpio: 

1. A n association of J upiter and M ercury brings in wealth 

2. If J upiter is in Capricorn, the native will be charitable 

3. If Sun, M ercury and V enus are in T aurus, the M ercury dasa confers lots of fame 
and power 

4. W hen J upiter and M ercury are in Pisces with M oon in V irgo, the native will be 
fortunate 

5. If there'saj upiter-M oon-Ketu combine in Cancer, the Ketu dasa will be 
ordinary but the J upiter dasa excellent 

Sagittarius: 

1. Saturn, when in A ries, confers prosperity during its dasa 

2. This isthe only ascendant for which Saturn in 11 th confers a yoga 

3. If Sun and V enus are in Leo with Saturn in A quarius, the Saturn dasa will bring 
in wealth 

Capricorn: 

1. If M ercury is in Leo with J upiter in lagna and aspected by V enus, long life is 
conferred, but with poverty 

2. V enus in in T aurus isgood; if in L ibra, though, he may not prove so fortunate 

3. 1 f V enus and M ercury are in lagna with M oon in T aurus aspected by J upiter, the 
native is certain to become an emperor. This is called a maharaja yoga 

4. If J upiter is in lagna with V enus and M ars in Scorpio, brothers will give the 


5 



native riches during thej upiter dasa 

5. W hen Sun, M oon and M ercury are in lagna, with M ars and V enus in Sagittarius, 
the native will be replete with wealth 

6. A Saturn-M ercury combination in V irgo confers fortune. R ahu becomes a 
yogakaraka if he's with J upiter in Sagittarius 

7. The presence of M oon in Cancer and M ars in lagna causes a rajayoga 

Aquarius: 

1. For both A quarius and Leo ascendant natives, the mere association of the 9 th 
and 10 th lords doesn't confer any rajayoga 

2. If Venus and R ahu are in lagna with Sun in Scorpio, yoga will be caused in the 
dasas of R ahu and J upiter 

3. If Sun and M ars are in V irgo, the native suffers during their dasas. The M ercury 
dasa will be better 

4. J upiter in lagna with Saturn in Pisces will see mixed results during thej upiter 
dasa and an ordinary time during the Saturn dasa 

5. If Saturn and V enus are in Sagittarius, the V enus dasa proves fortunate 

6. A Sun-M ercury-J upiter combine in A ries isgood, especially duringthe Sun dasa 
when the native enjoys power 

Pisces: 

1. W hile V enus in 12 th produces benefic results for all other ascendants, this isn't 
the case for either Pisces or A quarius 

2. Saturn in A quarius is good. H owever, if M oon is in A quarius, the native suffers 
poverty (though there's an alleviation of this in J upiter dasa, M oon bhukti) 

3. J upiter in Cancer will bestow more daughters than sons 

4. If M oon is in A ries and M ars in Cancer, M oon's dasa brings wealth 

5. If M oon and M ars are in Capricorn, J upiter in Leo, V enus in Libra and Saturn in 
Scorpio, the native will be highly fortunate 

6. A M oon-M ercury-M ars combine in Capricorn is an indicator of wealth and 
conveyances 

7. If Saturn and M oon are in lagna, M ars in Capricorn and V enus in Leo, predict 
fortune for the native 

8. If M ercury, J upiter, M oon and M ars are in lagna, the dasas of these planets 
bring in immense fame, power and prosperity 

9. J upiter posited in Sagittarius certainly causes a rajayoga 

10. If M oon is in T aurus, Sun in Leo, M ercury in V irgo, Venus in L ibra, J upiter in 
Sagittarius, Saturn in A quarius and M ars in Capricorn, there'll be much fortune to 
the native. Even if one or two of these combinations are absent, there'll still the 
full effects of a rajayoga 


6 



C hapter 2 

D hana yogas 


1. 1 f the there's a parivartana between either the 2 nd and 5 th lords or the 2 nd and 
11 th lords, the native earns a lot. This is also true for the placement of the 5 th and 
9 th lords in their own houses 

2. If the lords of 2 nd and 11 th are associated with lords of the 5 th and 9 th , dhana yoga 
results. 

3. If the said planets (2 nd and ll th )are associated with lords other than the 5 th and 
9 th , no dhana yoga results; however, the native does enjoy moderate wealth 

4. There'll be loss of wealth if the 12 th lord associates with the 2 nd and 11 th lords 

5. 1 t's always fortunate for J upiter to associate with the 2 nd lord and M ercury 

6. If the 1 st , 2 nd and 11 th lords are in their own houses, a dhana yoga isformed 

7. If the 2 nd and 11 th lords are in the lagna, a powerful dhana yoga results 

8. If the different karakas are present in their respective bhavas, such bhavas lose 
their vitality and give rise to very little of their indications 

9. For Capricornians, if M oon is alone in A quarius, the native regains lost wealth 


Poverty yogas 

1. If the lagna lord is in 8 th , together with lords of 4 th and 9 th , there's sure to be life 
long poverty 

2. 1 f there's a parivartana between the 2 nd and 12 th lords, poverty is certain 
3. If the 2 nd lord is in 12 th , the 12 th lord in lagna and aspected by a malefic, poverty 
is indicated 


Education yogas 

1. V enusor M ercury in 4 th makes the native proficient in music and astrology 
respectively 

2. If R ahu conjoins either Sun or M ercury in 5 th , the native becomes an expert in 
astrology and dealing with poisons 

3. A Sun-M ercury combination in 2 nd makes one a good astrologer. I f this 
combination is aspected by Saturn, the native becomes a mathematician 

4. Sun and M ars in 2 nd makes one a logician. Saturn, M ercury and Sun in 5 th makes 
the native an expert in philosophy 

5. A Sun-M ercury combine in either a quadrant, trine or 11 th makes one a 


7 



mathematician. V enus in 2 nd makes one a poet 

6. R ahu in 4 th confers long life to the mother. If in 5 th , the native becomes an 
expert in understanding inner meanings of things 

7. J upiter in 2 nd , especially when that happens to be either Sagittarius, Pisces or 
Cancer, makes one an expert in the V edas 

8. It'sfortunate to havej upiter and the 2 nd lord associated in a quadrant or trine 

9. The presence of M oon and M ars in 2 nd makes one a priest 

10. Saturn in the 2 nd makes one vindictive and a fool 


T astes and speech 

1. If Saturn is in or aspects the 3 rd , or associated with the lord of the 3 rd , the native 
would be inclined to sour and pungent flavors 

2. If M arsis in or aspects the 3 rd , or associated with the lord of the 3 rd , the native 
would be inclined to hot food 

3. If J upiter is in or aspects the 3 rd , or associated with the lord of the 3 rd , the native 
would like sattvik food 

4. V enus in 2 nd would make one loose in morals 

5. K etu or J upiter in 2 nd would make one a clever speaker. I f there's Saturn, he's 
liable to speak rudely 

6. M oon in the 2 nd would make the native talkative. If Sun and M ars are in 2 nd , the 
person speaks harshly 

7. If M ercury is in 2 nd , he'll speak cleverly and skillfully. If R ahu is present, he'll 
speak with humility 

8. If V enus is in 2 nd , the native would like milk and sweets. Rahu or Ketu in 2 nd 
makes one adaptable 

9. If Saturn is in 2 nd , the food eaten by the native gets polluted by sudras 


C hapter 3 

B rothers 

1. The existence of brothers should be divined from either the lord of the 3 rd or 
from the karaka of brothers or from the planets combined with M ars 

2. If Sun and M ars are associated with the 3 rd lord in the 3 rd house, the native will 
be courageous 

3. B ravery is indicated by the presence of R ahu or K etu in 3 rd , whereas the 
presence there of M ercury would indicate timidity 

4. If the 3 rd house is occupied by either J upiter or M ars, the native will have 
brothers 


8 



5. J upiter in the 11 th will make one suffer from the elder brother. If M ars is in 11 th 
and is aspected by Saturn, there'll be no elder brother for the native 

6. The presence of 10 th lord in the 3 rd results in the destruction of most rajayogas 

7. If the 2 nd and 3 rd lords are associated, the native will be generous. If Saturn 
combines such an association, the native becomes a miser instead 

8. 1 f the 3 rd lord is in a dusthana, brothers die. I f benefics are also there in these 
houses, the deaths will happen later in life 

C hapter 4 

Fortune, luxuries and children 

1. If the lords of 4 th and 9 th combine in the lagna, the native will lead a very 
luxurious life 

2. H appiness is surely indicated when J upiter is in or aspects the 4 th house, or if 
J upiter and the 4 th lord combine in a quadrant or trine 

3. Presence of the 4 th lord and V enus in 4 th will indicate a person of ordinary 
conveyances 

4. If M ercury and V enus are in L ibra for a Cancer ascendant native, luxuries come 
by in M ercury dasa V enus bhukti 

5. If J upiter in the 4 th , the person gets to own horses. If V enus is in the 7 th , he 
becomes sensual 

6. Saturn in the 4 th confers foreign residence, in dilapidated houses. It'll also make 
the native hard-hearted 

7. Powerful luxury yogas are generated when there is a parivartana between the 
lords of either the 4 th and 9 th , 4 th and 11 th , 1 st and 4 th , 4 th and 5 th , 5 th and 9 th or 5 th 
and 11 th . Similar results can be seen if either the 4 th and 5 th lords or 1 st and 9 th lords 
are in their respective houses 

8. A luxury yoga is also generated when the 5 th and 9 th lords are in 9 th and 10 th 
respectively 

9. If J upiter and 5 th lords are in association, childbirthscan be predicted 

10. If J upiter, 5 th lord and lagna lords are all disposed in quadrants and trines, the 
native enjoys happiness from children 


C hapter 5 

E nemies and diseases 

1. The native will be sick if the 8 th lord is in the lagna. If the 6 th lord is in lagna, he'll 
be troubled by diseases and rivals 

2. If Sun is combined with the lagna lord and M oon with the 6 th lord, the native will 
fear fever and water respectively 


9 



3. If M ars is associated with the lagna and 6 th lords, the native will be prone to 
wounds and injuries. If M ercury is associated with the said lords, the native will 
suffer diseases of the gastro-intestinal tract 

4. The association of J upiter with the lagna and 6 th lords doesn't make one disease- 
prone but if Saturn is associated with them, he'll fear thieves 

5. R ahu or Ketu conjoining the lagna and 6 th lords gives the native fear of felines 
and reptiles 

6. If V enus is combined with the lagna and 6 th lords, the native's spouse will be in 
danger. If the lord of the 3 rd and M ars conjoin, death in a war is indicated 

7. If the 8 th lord is in the 12 th in combination with debilitated or inimical planets 
and the lagna lord is strong, the person's diseases will be destroyed 

8. For T aurus and Scorpio natives, if the lagna lord is weak and combined with 
benefics, the native's enemies will turn pals 


C hapter 6 

Seventh house 

1. If the 7 th lord is associated with V enus with no malefic aspects, only one 
marriage isindicated 

2. If malefics are in the 2 nd and 7 th and are combined with the lord of 7 th , or if 

V enus is debilitated or in 11 th , or if the 7 th lord is in 6 th or 12 th , the native will have 
more than one wife. The native will have this indication if malefics are in the lagna 
3. 1 f Saturn, M ars and V enus are weak and occupy the 2 nd , 4 th , 7 th , 8 th and 12 th , the 
native will have two wives. The same isthe case if M ars is in any of these positions 

4. If J upiter is in the 2 nd , the person will have a second wife late in life 

5. If Saturn is in 2 nd or Rahu in the 7 th , two marriages are indicated 

6. If the 2 nd and 7 th are occupied by either their respective lords or V enus and if the 
two houses are associated with benefics, the number of such benefics indicates the 
number of living wives the native will have, while only one wife will live if malefics 
join the above combination 

7. If there's a V enus-Saturn conjunction in 7 th , the person will remain attached to 
his own wife 

8. M ercury in 7 th makes the person addicted to other women, while J upiter there 
gives a devoted wife 

9. If the lords of the 7 th , 2 nd and 10 th are in 4 th , the native will be addicted to other 
women 

10. The person becomes skilful if R ahu is in 7 th , while Ketu there will make the 
wife a shrew 


10 



C hapter 7 

H ealth and longevity 


1. If the lagna lord isassociated withj upiter, good longevity is indicated. J upiter is 
the karaka for fortune, children and body 

2. Saturn in association with the 8 th lord also confers long life. Saturn's placement 
in the 8 th is also good for longevity 

3. The 8 th lord in the lagna, along with Ketu, indicates short life 

4. Sun combined with the lord of 9 th makes the father long-lived, provided they're 
not together in 9 th . H owever, Sun's placement in the 9 th shortens the father's life, 
as does M oon in 4 th for the mother's longevity 

5. If the 9 th lord is in 11 th , long life to the father is indicated 

6. M oon, when associated with the 4 th lord, indicates a long life to the mother 

7. If either M ars or J upiter is in 3 rd , harm will be caused to the native's brothers 

8. If the 3 rd is owned and occupied by J upiter, the person will only have one 
brother 

9. J upiter in 5 th and V enus in 7 th lessen the longevity of children and spouse 
respectively 

10. Long life to the native's mother is surely to be predicted if M oon conjoins the 
4 th lord in 5 th , 9 th or 10 th 

11. If the 4 th lord is in 4 th and it happensto be its moolatrikona, the mother will live 
long 

12. The mother's longevity will be curtailed by Saturn's aspect on both the 4 th lord 
and waning M oon 


C hapter 8 

Fortunate combinations 

1. A parivartana between the 9 th and 11 th lords or an association between these two 
lords indicates a fortunate native 

2. If eight planets occupy four houses in pairs of two each, the native will be 
fortunate. The same can be predicted if there are three pairsof planets in a 
horoscope 

3. If four beneficsare aspected by malefics, the native won't be very fortunate but 
he'll have some wealth 

4. If malefics occupy the 3 rd , 6 th and 11 th houses, the person becomes lucky 

5. The person will be fortunate in that bhava whose karaka is situated in the 12 th 
house 


11 



6. If the lords of the lagna, 9 th and 4 th are in the 10 th , lagna or 7 th in association with 
the 10 th lord, during the dasas and bhuktis of such lords, the native will become 
very fortunate 

7. 1 t's auspicious to have an exalted planet situated in either 5 th or 9 th 

8. If there's a Sun-V enus-M ercury combine in 5 th with J upiter in 11 th , the M ercury 
dasa will bring the native much fortune 

9. If Sun and 9 th lord are together in the 12 th , fortune thru father is indicated 

10. The native's father will either be fortunate or otherwise, depending on whether 
Sun is exalted or debilitated 

11. For a Sagittarian, even a debilitated Sun will confer riches thru the father 

12. The placement of the lords of 9 th , 12 th and Sun augur well for the father, or if 
J upiter and 12 th lord are in 12 th 

13. If V enus and M oon are both in 12 th , the native will be fortunate thru his mother 
and wife 

14. If M ars or 9 th lord is in 12 th , the person will be fortunate in respect of his 
brother or father respectively 

15. If M ercury conjoinsthe 2 nd lord in 6 th , the native acquires money thru his 
enemies (or cousins and rivals) 

16. If J upiter as 5 th lord is exalted, the children enjoy much fortune 


C hapter 9 

Rajayogas 

1. If the 2 nd and 5 th lords are their respective houses or in the 9 th and 10 th , rajayoga 
is conferred 

2. If the 2 nd and 11 th lords are in 10 th , free from afflictions, rajayoga results 

3. R ahu's placement in 4 th , 5 th , 10 th or 11 th gives a rajayoga during R ahu dasa 

4. K etu in the 5 th or 9 th is evil. I n the 3 rd , it's capable of producing a rajayoga 

5. The placement of M oon and V enus in 3 rd is auspicious, during the V enus dasa 

6. There's no permanent yoga if the 10 th lord is either in 3 rd or 11 th 

7. W hen J upiter lordsthe 10 th , his placement in 3 rd gives the same yoga as that 
when he'd have owned the 3 rd 

8. W hile the placement of the 9 th lord in 8 th is generally unfavorable, the same 
placement when J upiter lordsthe 9 th is very auspicious 

9. W hen the 8 th and 9 th lords associate, the dasa of the former will confer fame and 
power 

10. A n association of the 10 th and 11 th lords confers a rajayoga during the 11 th 
lord's dasa, while bad results occur during the 10 th lord's periods and 11 th lord's 
bhuktis 

11. V enus in 10 th produces no yoga. If Saturn is in the 7 th , his periods prove 
fortunate 

12. Saturn in the 3 rd or 9 th , or R ahu in 7 th certainly confers prosperity 


12 



13. J upiter in the 3 rd , 8 th and 9 th confers fame and prosperity. If in 12 th , the native 
goes to heaven after death 

14. A parivartana between the 9 th and 10 th lords is a very powerful rajayoga, as 
does the parivartana between the 5 th and 10 th lords 

15. If the 9 th and 10 th lords are in their respective houses, it's very fortunate 

16. The placement of the 9 th and 10 th lords in 7 th and lagna respectively is 
auspicious 

17. The native enjoys power and fame if the 5 th , 7 th and 10 th lords are in quadrants 
and trines 

18. W hen Sun, J upiter, M ars and Saturn are all exalted in a chart, a rajayoga 
results 


C hapter 10 

Combi nations for dips in sacred waters 

1. If J upiter is in association with the 10 th lord, the native will be engaged in good 
deeds 

2. If the lords of 5 th , 7 th , 9 th , 10 th and J upiter are all together in a watery sign, the 
native will have dips in rivers as sacred as G anga and in G anga itself during 

J upiter'sdasa 

3. N o pilgrimage will be undertaken by the native during the dasas of the 5 th and 
7 th lords; he'll spend histime listening to God's stories in thistime instead 

4. If J upiter and Saturn are in 9 th in A quarius, the native will have the fortune of 
many dips in the G anga and holy rivers. The same results if there's a V enus-Sun- 
J upiter combine in l(r in Capricorn 

5. 1 f the 10 th lord is associated with J upiter, the native will be religious. O pposite 
results are produced when the 10 th lord is in the 6 th or 12 th 


C hapter 11 

C ombinations for death 

1. The 2 nd lord becomes a maraka in the dasa of the 12 th lord, and vice-versa 

2. If the second lord associates with the 12 th lord, the latter becomes a powerful 
maraka during the dasa of the 2 nd lord 

3. If the 12 th lord aspects the 12 th house, the planets in that house become marakas 
during the dasa of the 2 nd lord 

4. D eath may take place in the bhuktis of malefics in the 12 th within the 12 th lord's 
dasa 

5. M alefics, when in the 2 nd and in association with the 12 th lord, turn killers in their 
own dasas and bhuktis 


13 



6. D eath will be caused in the dasasof malefics in the 12 th house. Planets in 
association with the 2 nd lord will also become evil 

7. D eath will be caused by the 8 th lord in his own dasa and bhukti. D eath will also 
be caused in the bhukti of the 8 th lord in the dasa of the 6 th lord 

8. D eath will be caused by malefics in the 6 th , in their bhuktis 

9. D eath can be predicted in the dasa of the 6 th lord and bhukti of the 8 th lord 

10. Planets aspected by the 8 th lord and planets associated with the 6 th lord become 
marakas in the dasa of the 8 th lord 

11. D eath will be caused in the dasa of a malefic in 8 th and bhukti of the 6 th lord 

12. D eath will be caused in the dasa of a malefic in 6 th and bhukti of the 8 th lord 

13. D eath will happen in the dasa of a malefic in 8 th and bhukti of a malefic in the 

6 th 

14. For T aurus lagna natives, if M ercury and V enus are in V irgo, they become 
mutual marakas 

15. M ars inflicts death in his dasa if he has evil lordship and is placed in the 5 th 
house 

16. W hen Saturn associates with marakas in a chart, he becomes death-inflicting, 
even if he owns favorable houses 

17. D eath will be caused in the dasa of the 8 th lord when he occupies the lagna 

18. If two or more children of the native undergo R ahu dasa concurrently, the 
native dies in that time 


C hapter 12 

Results of dasas 

1. U nless born in Sagittarius and Pisces lagnas, when V enus and Saturn give rise to 
yogas in the other's dasas, unfortunate results are to be expected in Saturn's dasa 
V enus bhakti and V enus dasa Saturn bhukti 

2. D eath may be caused by the lords of 6 th , 8 th and 12 th in the course of the dasa of 
the 8 th lord who occupies the 6 th , 8 th or 12 th 

3. If the 3 rd and 10 th lords are in association, the native will be bereft of fortune in 
the 10 th lord's dasa but enjoy good results in the 3 rd lord's dasa 

4. The 5 th , 7 th and 9 th being in their own houses facilitate dips in sacred rivers 
during their dasas and bhuktis 

5. A person gets wealth by his own efforts in the dasa of planets occupying the 
lagna or 7 th house. H e'll also acquire wealth during the 9 th lord's dasa if he 
occupies 7 th 

6. The native's father will die in the bhukti of Rahu, Ketu, Saturn or the Sun within 
the Rahu dasa. Father's death can also be predicted in the bhukti of M ars, Saturn, 
Rahu or Sun in the dasa of Ketu 

7. Father'sdeath will happen in the bhuktis of Rahu, Ketu, Saturn or Sun in the 
dasa of M ars, or bhukti of M ars, R ahu, Sun or K etu in the dasa of Saturn 


14 



8. Father's death will certainly occur before the end of M arsdasa and the 
beginning of R ahu dasa 

9. 0 ne'sfather will die in the bhukti of R ahu in the dasa of a malefic planet 

10. V enus confers a rajayoga in his dasa if he's in conjunction with J upiter in 
Scorpio 

11. W hen Sun and M ercury are in association, Sun's dasa will be ordinary but 
M ercury's dasa will be excellent 

12. W hen M ars and M oon are in association, M ars' dasa will be ordinary but 
M oon's dasa will be excellent 

13. W hen J upiter and Saturn are in association, J upiter's dasa will be ordinary but 
Saturn's dasa will be excellent 

14. W hen J upiter and M oon are in association,] upiter's dasa will be ordinary but 
M oon's dasa will be excellent 

15. R ahu when in a quadrant or trine confers a rajayoga during his dasa 

16. If J upiter, M ercury and V enus are associated, the native becomes rich 

17. If V enus is associated with M ercury or J upiter, V enus' dasa will be very fruitful 

18. W hen J upiter and M ercury associate, mixed results are seen in M ercury's dasa 
whilej upiter'sdasa will be bad for the native's finances 

19. W hen Sun conjoins other planets, Sun's dasa will be favorable while the dasas 
of the other planets conjoined with Sun will yield ordinary results 

20. Of the planets associated with R ahu, the strongest one gives results indicated 
by it 

21. W hen R ahu, Sun and Saturn are in the 3 rd , R ahu gives rise to courage and 
fortune in his dasa 

22. D uring the R ahu dasa, one becomes timid if M ercury is in the 3 rd house 


C hapter 13 

O rdinary combinations 

1. A II such bhavas whose lords are in conjunction with the respective karakas 
become strong 

2. The lords of the 3 rd , 8 th and 11 th produce evil, while the lords of the 5 th and 9 th 
give good results. Even J upiter becomes evil while owning the 3 rd , 8 th or 11 th house, 
though he'll confer wealth and fame 

3. V enus in both the 6 th and 12 th gives rise to fame and fortune 

4. If R ahu is in either the 4 th , 5 th , 10 th or 11 th houses, fame and affluence are 
guaranteed 

5. Benefics become evil by owning quadrants, while malefic planets owning 
quadrants confer a rajayoga 

6. H ouses which are aspected by Saturn become defective, as does the house in 
which Saturn is posited. H owever, if Saturn aspects the 3 rd and 9 th houses, they 
gain strength 


15 



7. A waning M oon in the lagna makes the native dull and dependent. 0 pposite 
results are seen if M oon is waxing 

8. The native becomes fortunate if M oon and M ars are either in the lagna or the 8 th 
house. H e acquires houses if M arsjoinsthe 4 th lord 

9. If J upiter is in the 4 th with the 4 th lord, the person acquires cattle 

10. A ny house or lord or its karaka, if hemmed between malefics, produce evil 
results 

11. If the lords of 11 th and 12 th conjoin, they produce good results. The 11 th lord 
produces good results if he occupies the 3 rd or 12 th house 

12. 0 nly ordinary results manifest when the 9 th lord is in 8 th 

13. M oon in the 6 th makes one intelligent, whereas he'll be fickle if it's in the 3 rd 

14. B eginning from A ries, zodiacal signs are alternatively odd and even 


C hapter 14 

G rahamalika yogas 

1. If all planets occupy the first five houses from the lagna, panchagrahamalika 
yoga is caused 

2. If all planets occupy the first six houses from the lagna, shashtagrahamalika yoga 
is caused 

3. If all planets occupy the first seven houses from the lagna, sapthagrahamalika 
yoga is caused 

4. If all planets occupy the first eight houses from the lagna, ashtagrahamalika yoga 
is caused 

5. If all planets occupy the first nine housesfrom the lagna, navagrahamalika yoga 
is caused 

6. Some say the grahamalika yoga commences from the Sun, while others are of 
the view that the lagna is the yoga's starting point 

7. A native having grahamalika yoga caused by the presence of planets in 5, 6, 7, 8 
and 9 housesfrom the lagna will be fortunate 

8. Planets occupying even signs produce results pertaining to their trinal ownership 
in the beginning; the results due to the other ownership will be conferred later 

9. Planets occupying odd signs produce results pertaining to ownership of rasi, etc. 
in the beginning; the results due to trinal lordship will be conferred later 

10. A planet in the 2 nd from the Sun has swift motion; the one in 3 rd even motion 

11. Planets in the 4 th from the Sun possess slow motion; those in the 5 th and 61 th 
have somewhat retrograde motion 

12. Planets in the 11 th and 12 th from the Sun possess very swift motion. Such swift 
motion renders benefics devoid of strength 


16 



13. M alefics cause good by having retrograde motion. I n this way should be 
ascertained planetary movements, by the learned 


C hapter 15 

Planetary rulerships, etc. 

1. For Sun, A ries isfriendly being the sign of its exaltation, T aurus inimical, 

G emini neutral, Cancer friendly, Leo both the own house and moolatrikona, V irgo 
neutral, Libra the place of debilitation, Scorpio and Sagittarius friendly, Capricorn 
and A quarius inimical, and Pisces a friendly sign 

2. For M oon, A ries is neutral, T aurus the sign of its exaltation, G emini neutral, 
Cancer own house, Leo and V irgo friendly, L ibra neutral, Scorpio the place of 
debilitation, Sagittarius, Capricorn, A quarius and Pisces neutral signs 

3. For M ars, A ries is both own house and moolatrikona, T aurus and G emini 
inimical, Cancer is the place of debilitation, Leo friendly, Virgo and Libra inimical, 
Scorpio own house, Sagittariusfriendly, Capricorn and A quarius inimical, and 
Pisces a friendly sign 

4. For M ercury, A ries is neutral, T aurusfriendly, Gemini own house, Cancer 
inimical, Leo friendly, V irgo own house, moolatrikona and place of exaltation, 

L ibra friendly and Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn and A quarius neutral, and Pisces 
the place of debilitation 

5. For J upiter, A ries isfriendly, T aurus and G emini inimical, Cancer the place of 
exaltation, Leo friendly, V irgo and Libra inimical, Scorpio friendly, Sagittarius the 
own house and moolatrikona, Capricorn the place of debilitation, A quarius 
neutral and Pisces own house 

6. For V enus, A ries is neutral, T aurus own house, G emini neutral, Cancer and Leo 
inimical, V irgo friendly, Libra own house and moolatrikona, Scorpio neutral, 
Sagittarius inimical, Capricorn and A quarius friendly and Pisces sign of exaltation 
but also inimical 

7. For Saturn, A ries is inimical and place of debilitation, T aurus and G emini 
friendly, Cancer and Leo inimical, V irgo friendly and Libra the sign of exaltation, 
Scorpio inimical, Sagittarius neutral, Capricorn isown house, A quarius isthe 
moolatrikona as well as own house and Pisces a neutral sign 

8. For R ahu, T aurus isthe place of exaltation, G emini and Cancer are 
moolatrikonas 

9. For Ketu, Pisces isown house, Libra friendly, A quariusown house, Scorpio the 
place of exaltation, and Sagittarius and Capricorn the moolatrikona places 


Compiled by Ramapriya © hubli@vsnl.com 


17 


