Okay. So, um, as many of you know, the last few months I've been extremely busy doing a lot more research than even normally. And so, I was able to conclude a lot of the researches that I started about three years ago. Some in fact,
hi Jeff. Okay. Some of which I had already um had started more than three years ago. In fact, some of these ideas. I had tried um as many as six years ago, I had my wife program some things in Tucala to help with this. But um before I get started into the actual um thing, I want to say that you know having done a lot of researches and having gotten more into more and more technical astrology, more and more mathematically centered astrology, um I found more and more ations that are in vogue in modernday astrology were just not given the results that I expected. And where a lot of people I find are happy to get a sort of mediocre type result and rely on their gut instincts to get better than that. I've always been um you know overly perfectionistic even in astrology where I really expect a technique to deliver. I really expect astrology to work scientifically and if not I basically beat my head you know against the wall until I work it out to my better satisfaction. And it's it's a very difficult process. And as a result, most people get a certain degree of accuracy and they're happy to sit there and work with that technique. And I've worked with so many techniques and as I work with them more, I often time notice their limitations and I'm just not happy with that limitation. So I try to go beyond it and I and I question it. When I see a technique fail, I question it. And so because of that, I've done a lot more researches and I've gotten a lot more into calculation astronomical researches than your average astrologer who doesn't really concern himself with that. And I did that because I simply found the need to because for some reason techniques were just not working to the expectation I had for them. A lot of techniques that I've tested that are in common use, I've only found statistically to work four out of 10 times, which is really low. Can Ralph used to say that if a technique works 60% of the time, it's a valid technique and you could use it. Well, when I read that, I was shocked. I was like, 60% and it's worth using. But as I did more researches over the years, I realized so many of the techniques that people are using only work 40% of the time. So, at that point, 60% is a pretty solid technique. Um, somebody who's moving needs to mute themselves with the six. Okay. So, um let me try to mute everyone. Hold on.
Q&A mode is on. Participants may now unmute themselves.
Okay. If anyone wants to ask a question, just push your six and you'll be unmuted to talk. Okay. Otherwise, we I'll have cut out all the background noise. So, um so, you know, when you consider that a lot of technique only work for 30% of the time, you know, 60% sounds really good. I've always strived to get techniques so I could get to work eight out of 10 times. And if I can't get them to work eight out of 10 times, I figure they're either not valid techniques or I'm still doing something wrong. And a lot of techniques I've only been able to get to 70%. I've used them, but I haven't been satisfied and I've struggled to try to make them better. And once I hit 80%, which is what I found a lot of Jamie techniques did really nicely, um, then I would kind of us to be quite happy. Um, that's a real high level of accuracy for a single technique. And if you use two techniques pointing towards the same thing and they're both 80% effective, you can do really, really solid astrology work. But like I said, a lot of techniques are just not that accurate. Um, we also see we, you know, we also have to wonder just how accurate astrologers are as a bunch. Um, for example, I had a lady email me who was had done had finished doing some kind of thesis for a university in which she had heard a spadic astrology was 90% accurate. So she went to um you know got funding from her school to visit 10 vdic astrologers all who had good reputations who were wellknown charging at least $150 a reading us more like two30 you know top astrologers in the US vic astrologers and she went to these 10 astrologers and she asked them all the same 10 questions questions and she found that not one of the astrologers answered any of the questions the same. And so she asked how can Vic astrology be 90% accurate if 10 astrologers answer 10 questions differently. Right? Well, at that point we the best we could say is Vic astrologers are 10% accurate or or maybe all of them are partially accurate and when the questions are answered in her life she'll find that every astrologer had a little bit you know mentioned one aspect of her question that all came together but she was really shocked and was asking me you know how can it vic astrology claim to be this accurate when I get such different questions then I remember before the last presidential election there's an email going around that an Indian astrologer had put out that started with with the next presidential election we're going to prove the super signs of vic astrology which is 100% accurate I believe it's said 100% it might have said 90% that in predicting destiny as a man because it vic astrology shows that Al Gore not Al Gore the Carrie is going to win the election. Well, we all know Carrie didn't win the election and so obviously Vic astrology failed and that's how the guy wrote the article. He said we're going to Vdic astrology will prove he didn't take the consideration to say you know my prediction based on Vic astrology. He made it sound like this was Vadic astrology and as a result really you know made Vdic astrology look quite stupid. Anyone can fail in any prediction any time and there's never anything wrong with that. Um and though Vadic astrology might be perfect there's no perfect astrologers but he made it sound like it was Vadic astrology was would inherently prove the election and he failed. In fact most of the Vic astrologers that I talked to failed in the last presidential election. So you know you wonder about this and you If you really look at astrologers work and you wonder and you go, gosh, you know, while everyone's doing a lot of good work, a lot of people are getting a lot of helpful insights into their lives. When it comes to the sheer prediction of it, it fails a lot more than we like to admit if we take an honest answer. Roland Duth emailed me after I had mailed out this announcement for this class. He's a he's a worldwide teacher of Vadic astrology and he told me that, you know, he thought it was great. I was doing some researches because the real truth is says, you know, he sees Vadic astrologers, western astrologers fail all the time. And the truth is we do and we always will. But because we do, we have to, in my idea, we have to work towards minimizing our shortcomings and trying to improve on the science of astrology. Um, and there's only a few people who are willing to do that. Other people percentage have this belief that Vdic astrology is perfect and that it's unfailing or it's 90% accurate. And the simple fact is it's simply not that accurate. period. So we all have work to do. So this class is to talk about some of the possibilities of why maybe vic astrology does fail. Now western astrology fails too in predictions. Although there is western astrologers who I've seen make great predictions when it comes down to it they really don't have the sophistication of techniques. Um they don't have dashas they don't have vargas most importantly and those of us who've done vic astrology know that we only could pick so much and so accurate without var charts. So you know we can really see why b western astrologers failed at times because of the fact they simply don't have bar charts. I wouldn't want to do astrology without bar charts. I wouldn't know how to proceed but somehow they managed still to make predictions though of course they fail as well. So astrologers around the world are constantly failing. And even though that sounds real negative I we also have to say that well medical doctors only diagnose accurately about 30% of the diseases that they're confronted with. So when the doctor tells you what's wrong with you, there's only a 30% chance that he was right. They've done re, you know, statistical researches of people going to doctors, chiropractors, nature paths, acupuncturists, homeopaths, all the different healing arts. And they found that statistically each of them were able to cure the person about 30% of the time. So these sciences which people have great respect for for are getting um you know about 30% results which is quite shabby. That means you have to go to usually three doctors before you're going to find one that's going to be able to cure you. And it's interesting that all the healing sciences when really tested you statistically panned out at about 30%. So compared to that that us astrologers are really doing the best work out there because I don't know an astrologer that only does 30% effective work. work. I don't know an astrologer who only onethird of his predictions come true. I've never come across an astrologer that bad. Okay? So, we really have to applaud ourselves at the same time that even though Vic astrology does fail and even though western astrology fail, even though us astrologers constantly fail, we fail less than doctors and uh and healing practitioners do, which is really a quite amazing thing because when it comes down to it, we're doing something different, you know. we're doing something harder. So in that respect, we really have to congratulate ourselves while knowing there's still work to do. And there's no surprise that, you know, all these healing arts and super sciences like astrology are struggling to find the accuracy we want. And it's simply because we're coming out of the Kaluga and so a lot of knowledge was lost. A lot of understanding is not clear. And as a result, we're going to fail sometimes. as astrologers, as doctors, whatever. So, there's lots of work to do, which makes it exciting, but also makes it painful. I remember my friend who got me all my Vic astrology books way back when. He told he only he hardly talked this guy and everything he said was unfortunately in most cases very true. Um, he said that he goes, "This is a really painful science you've started to you've decided to study." And it is very painful because we constantly are confronted by our doubts. We're constantly confronted by our failings and we're constantly um confronted by things that we just don't work to the degree we want to and everyone knows what I'm talking about but we have to keep on and remember that we are doing better than doctors we should have more respect than doctors we should have more income than doctors you know but we don't so at least we can have some pride in what we're doing more than doctors so anyway as a result of my researches getting more and my techniques getting more and more technical over the last several years calculation errors things that just didn't add up became more and more apparent. Now, most astrologers when they actually sit down to read a chart in a reading situation, you know, we really go into our intuitive selves and our perceptive selves and I'm sure we all can all of you can identify this. Somebody asks a question, you look at a chart and you get a feeling about something and then something at the chart says this is why and you say it. But the real truth is you had the feeling before you even started really studying the chart. You just knew your intuition just clued you in that the answer is no or the answer is yes or the answer is later whatever the answer was and that the fact that astrologers work this way is proven in how accurate astrologers are here we got astrologers throughout the world who are using completely different I amas lots of them boasting very good accuracy you know 70 80 sometimes even 90% of their predictions coming true and they're using completely different ionous and other different calculations. I've even seen them calculate the wrong charts wrong and still make good predictions because the intuition really can help us in a reading. In some parts of India, they still calculate the puncha, the planetary positions based on mean motions and making corrections to the mean motions of the planets. They basically calculate the planets according to the ancient methods about of about 1500 years. years ago, but they haven't really made any corrections to these ancient methods which have to be they have to add what's called a bea to these calculations occasionally to keep the accuracy accurate. They haven't added these bees as far as Ivanel will tell for about a thousand years. So as a result in one chart thumpia for Saturn will be 22° dumpia for moon will be 20° for Mars will be 18°. So their calculations are all a skew. easily three or four degrees off on different planets in the chart. And these astrologers um which are located primarily in Tamil are having amazing results with their reading. Yet with one chart you know Saturn will be you know 20° from you know with an IMO 20 and another chart their reading will be 23 because the calculations are simply so inaccurate but they're still able to make good predictions. So how can that be scientific. It can't be. It's largely because of their perceptive ability mixed with some science and some techniques. But to int their intuition allows them to grab the thing in the chart to give the answer that's the correct one. If we try of course you can imagine we try to do any statistical research with charts where one chart has an IMA of 20 and one chart has an IMA of 23° and another chart has an Impra of 19 and we throw all those charts into one group as if they all were calculated the same. Statistically, things would just fall apart, wouldn't they? We wouldn't get any statistically valid results with any technique we could use. But they're actually doing effective work with that because of their intuitive ability, their perceptive ability. But astrology as a science, things should add up. It shouldn't be that we have to use our intuition. You know, it should be that we simply do the technique and get an answer. And that's a high level of astrology. That level of astrology can only be achieved if we are accurate in our techniques, if we're accurate in our calculations, and if we're willing to do the hard work required to um do that, you know, type of astrology and it's difficult, but that's astrology as a science. Shri Keshwar used to complain about astrologers over 100 years ago when he said that he goes nobody uses ical systematic scientific techniques. He says all astrologers just memorize little tidbits and countless yogas and then they look at charts and see what jumps out at them and there luckily people have a intuition and so when they look at that chart what jumps out at them can be the right thing something that actually works in that particular chart but it may not work in another chart. He said astrology was meant to be a science practice in a scientific and systematic and method ical way. So that he's talked about in the late 1800s, early 1900s. Since then there's been a lot of progress where we had the KP system, Krishna Mirthi Pakati where we actually have a system of astrology. There was the um the system much more systematic techniques not emphasizing yoga as the big thing but you know a systematic technique. Then there is even the um oh this other one which I can never reme remember the name of the um the systems approach. So again we see three individuals in the last hundred years who have really tried to you know develop systematic astrology where you have a system of techniques and that's a very new thing actually that's kind of the way astrology is going it is going more scientific now the best scientific techniques we have you know I mean a technique where you actually follow a method from the beginning to the end and see what answer you get at the end are the techniques in Brihhat Parashra Horshastra and the techniques in Jam Sutras and those are the techniques I've been concentrating on and as I've gotten more technically you know proficient with those techniques calculation errors of course would throw me off more. If you're using your perception your intuition with techniques that are only mediocrely accurate like 40% of the time then it really doesn't really matter what how accurate your calculations are what your inump is because your intuition is going to grab what it needs out of that chart to deliver the answer. But if you're working with techniques that are scientific, that are methodical, and you're going to follow them through and see what the last number is, whether it's a yes or no, then if your eye is off, your techniques will fail, you know, because the math won't add up. If you're having a problem with your calculations, you'll fail. So that's why astronomy has been a really big part of my my pursuit of astrology these days because there's in the last 1600 years astrologers have developed lots of shortcut methods of calculating things um and actually have ended up calculating many many many things incorrectly. Okay. So let's talk about some astronomy here.
Yeah.
Can I ask a quick question?
Sure.
When you calculate you come up with a mistake or an error you you know, you got it wrong. Doesn't that information help you iterate toward the truth?
Unfortunately, yes. That's a big part of learning. It's by making our our failings help orientate us towards the truth. Definitely. If anyone else has any questions, just push your six button. Then you'll unmute. You can ask your question and you can mute again by pushing your six button again. Okay. So, one really interesting thing and mysterious thing about astrology is simply the nickshhatras. Um if everyone pulls up the diagram that's called diagram of nikshhatras. In that diagram we have the earth in the center which is you know shown by the green circle. Then the earth is you know has the ecliptic which is the yellow circuit circle. So the ecliptic is the zodiac and you'll see the ecliptic is is tilted at a angle of about 23° to the axis of the earth or to the equator of the earth and that's the ecliptic. So according to the ancient books of India you know the piranhas as well as the astronomical books the sun and the planet which move along the ecliptic move in three directions. Okay, how do they move in three directions? Well, they move from east to west. and then they move up and down. So right now the sun is for example is moving up. Since December 21st the sun started moving up. It's always moving east to west but since December 21st it started moving up as well. And it'll move up until June 21st at which point we'll hit the summer solstice and the sun will start moving down. So if you see where it says ecliptic zodiac on the diagram. That point up there is the summer solstice when the sun has moved up as far as it's going to move and then it starts to move down. So the planets and the sun which move along the ecliptic move in three directions. They move up, they move down and they move from east to west. Does everyone understand that? It's a very very important concept. If anyone doesn't understand it, just ask. Okay. Okay. Now the nshhatras which are the stars are said to move from only east to west. Nshhatras don't move up and down like the planets do. The reason they don't because nshhatras don't move along the ecliptic. Nshhatras are this are is the stellar sphere that surrounds us. And it's shown in this diagram where we have the 27 nshhatras as broken down um and surrounding the earth. And we know that the chakras don't move. The constellations, the stars, they don't move. What happens is that the earth revolves on its axis. And as the earth revolves on its axis, the stars appear to move. So they're said to move from east to west. Now, the fact that they don't move doesn't matter in the concept of the univer. universe they do move because the concept of the universe for astrological purposes is that earth is in the middle because from our point of view earth is in the middle everything is moving around earth we can't tell that earth is moving itself from our point of view everything's moving around the earth now we know that we're actually revolving around the sun but all the astrological calculations are done to earth as the center so the earth is actually revolving on its axis and making nhatras appear to revolve around the earth. So these nshhatras evolve around the earth in a just simply east to west fashion. So if you look on the diagram you'll simply see these 27 breakdowns of nshhatras revolving around the earth. And to understand that a little better let's go to the um the diagram that's called nshhatra day. Okay so on the nshhatra day diagram We're sitting above the earth looking down at earth from the north north pole. So we see the center of the north pole in the middle of the earth and we're looking directly through the pole of earth and we see the nshhatras the 27 nshhatras surrounding the earth and that's just another view of how the nshhatras are surrounding the earth and then the earth is rotating and that makes the nshhatras appear to revolve around earth. Now since the earth rotates on its polar axis that means the nshhatras revolve al in along the equator. Okay they revolve al they and move along not just the equator but they move on any um latitude you know so they you know they move along the c the equator and also the circumferences of the equator. So you know when you have a globe and there's the equator an inch above that there's another circle and an inch above that there's another circle. Well, depending on which of those circles you live on, the nakshhatras are revolving around that circle. They're basically revolving around the circumference of the earth as looked at when we're looking down through the north pole. So, in Vic astrology, we have something called a nshhatra day. And what a nhatra day is is what's shown in this diagram is the time it takes for the nikhatras to revolve around the earth, which is really the time it takes for the earth to revolve on its axis. So in this diagram we have Yamakoi which is the old ancient prime meridian which we'll talk about more a little bit later and we have that lined up with the galactic center and we lined it up with the galactic center be because it's probably the most significant part of you know our galaxy. It's the one fixed part of our galaxy. Now as the earth revolves a nshakra day could start When Yamakoti and the galactic center line up, the Earth revolves once. And when Yamakoti and the galactic center line up again, that's considered one nshakra day. And it's just a few minutes less almost 4 minutes less than your normal day. Okay? And that was a day that's mentioned as a you know a very important day in the Surya Sedant um where they have four different types of days. the nastra day, the lunar day, solar day and the savannah day. Savannah day is sunrise to sunrise. But anyway, from this diagram, I want you to get the idea that these nshhatras are appearing to revolve around the earth. Okay, so keep that in mind here while we talk about a little bit. I am really the crux of vadic astrology if you really think about it because it's the most significant part of our timing system. You know the is going to determine our dash And even though we have rashi dashes, the pro the you know mo majority of astrologers use nikhatra dashes. So the nshhatra where that moon is is just so critical to have accurate and so the ayamia as you all know is going to very much influence that. So with highamia the tendency is is for people to say this star marks the beginning of this nshakra or this star marks the middle of this chastra or something like that. They like to take some star. So with lihiri ayanra which is the most common these days they say the star chitra is the or the star chitra which is spait is in the middle of the nakshhatra chitra which translates into zero libra in the cidurial zodiac and they calculate the planets and from that point then there's another school that says revity marks The very the star Revity which is Sata Pisces marks the beginning of Ashweeni and the end of Revitra. So some astrologers will gravitate towards that ayania and then there's lots of astrologers that follow things in between. Now the reason that people who use Lihiri say that well Chitra star spy star is at zero libra cidurial is because in the serious Dant and other astronomical texts it says that that star is right in the middle of Chitra Nakshhatra and Chitra Nakshhatra falls right at the beginning or the middle of Chitra falls in the beginning of Libra cidurial okay but those very same and so they'll adopt this but those very same texts will say that revity marks the beginning of aween nakshhatra And so other people follow that one. The truth is if we put revity as the beginning of of aweeni chitra star will not be in the middle of chitra. It'll be three degrees different because the positions of the stars that those old gives books give are easily three degrees if not more off. None of the stars are even within one degree of accuracy that they give. So you can't take any two stars and put them where they say they are and come up with an inometria. You can come up with 27 differentumptions by taking each star and saying this is where they say it is but none of those would be the same. So a lot of you know the reason this exists is simply due to the fact that the old books say that this star is in the middle of this nikshhatra. So we're going to calculate everything from that point of view. But there are ignoring the fact that that same text also says that this star is here and that same text says this star is here and if we put one star where they say it is the other two stars aren't where they're supposed to be. Okay, so that's the scientific um quality of lihiri and other ionas out there as well. Basically they're unscientific even the text that people derive those from don't validate it simply put that astronomical books which are we have which are from 500 AD onward most of them are 500 to 800 900 AD simply did not have the stars calculated accurately enough to calc to determine an ionamia from okay there's also the problem of just conceptually of using a star to begin an INM shadow or mark an inam shadow mark the cidurial zodiac or the circle of the Nixhat. The problem with it is is that stars are not fixed. They're relatively fixed, but all the stars are moving around the galactic center and they're doing so at different speeds. Some stars are revolving around other stars as well. Stars have life and death. They will be born and they die. They're living, moving, changing things. Now, they're changing very slowly, but that they are changing. An average star moves 3 minutes in a thousand years. Okay, so stars are moving. They're not fixed. So to find a fixed circle of the heavens, which is what the cidurial zodiac is meant to be based on stars which are moving, changing, even possibly disappearing someday because stars die out and turn to black holes, just simply isn't a scientific concept for kind of have a fixed, you know, system of, you know, a fixed circle. It has to be based on something fixed. And our galaxy, the only fixed thing we have is the galactic center. There is nothing else fixed. Everything revolves around the galactic center. At one point in time, everything is going to be absorbed back into the galactic center. And then eventually that galactic center is going to be absorbed back into the center of the entire known universe. But Not until everything else in our galaxy has already dissolved and been pulled back into the galactic center. So at that point, it'll be a mute point to us astrologers. So basically the only viable point to base an ion is the galactic center and the galactic plane which is based on the galactic center. So it's also fixed. Everything else is moving. Now the interesting interesting thing is that We look upon the first nikshhatra as a shweeni. And the reason we do that is because in the you know 2,500 years ago approximately the vernal equinox was falling in a sweeny but before that the vernal equinox was falling in um kita and at that time many many texts started you know mentioning the n chakras from critica. So there's a tendency to calculate you know the start the first nikshhatra arbitrarily based on what nikshhatra the vernal equinox falls in the reason they do that is because that marks the age that marks the age of our revolution when the vernal equinox is in awe nakshhatra we're at a very low point of understanding and knowledge which happened about 500 AD when the vernal equinox falls in chitra nakshhatra which will happen in about oh 10,500 years or so. We're at our highest point of understanding. Okay. So they would always talk about the nickshhatra from the nickshhatra that the vernal equinox fell in. But the real the first nikshhatra is really moola number 19 presently. Okay. Why is that the first nikshhatra? Well its name moola means the root and it refers to the beginning of something. the source of something. Just like the root is the beginning and source of the tree, the moola nakshhatra is the beginning and source of the nakshhatras. And the interesting thing about moola is is that the galactic center falls in moola nakshhatra. So here we have an idea concept that's validated by the name of the nakshhatra. It's validated by the fact that there's something fixed the one fixed thing is actually falls in that chakra and it's also validated by lots of maherta calculations where we'll manipulate some nikshhatras of the moon and stuff all based from moola nakshhatra and other techniques in astrology which are based from moola nakshhatakra. So mula nakshhatra appears to be actually the the beginning nakshhatra and that's where we find the galactic center. So now we have a couple options. If we want to base nam on something fixed, we only have the galactic center and we can we have two options. We can put the galactic center at the beginning of moola. We could put it at the middle of moola or we can use the galactic plane and we can put the galactic plane in the middle of moola or the the beginning of moola. So which one should we follow? Well, at first glance it makes most sense to put it in the beginning of moola. So to put you know the galactic center and start an ionia where the galactic center if you know marks 0 degrees tharial Sagittarius the beginning of moola nakshhatra but there's an interesting thing um in astrology some techniques that they say to um you know we have to calculate the year lords to find out what's going to happen in the world like if we're going to want to predict world events and to do that we have to find the day the sun crosses the vernal equinox is the day you you know, that day of the week marks the um lord of the the king of the year and when the sun moves another 30° the day that that falls on marks the minister of the year and so on and we get our year lords. So for each sign when the sun in goes into that tropical sign we find the lord of something and we don't do anything with nakshhatras like that except when the sun moves into ardra nshhatra That's considered to be the lord of clouds. Now if we look at the nikshhatra day diagram, you'll see between number five and six, I've got the picture of the sun, the symbol of the sun there. So that's where the sun is when it moves into arra nhatra, which is the sixth nikshhatra and this nshhatra signaled out. The day that the sun moves into the arra nhatra is important. Well, the interesting thing is when The sun is in Arra nakshhatra. It's exactly opposite the middle of moola. Can you see that in the diagram that the sun when it enters arra is in is opposite the middle of moola. And at that point if we draw a line from the sun through the center of earth that line will go right through the middle of moola. Which of the two diagrams are
the nakshhatra day diagram. Okay. All right. Then we get you know the middle of moola being significant not the beginning of moola. Okay. So we can calculate an numpam shaft by putting the galactic plane there or the galactic center. And I've tried both and now that I finally completed my researches. I actually have preferred the galactic center. Okay. Or the galactic center being in the middle of moon. Now what's interesting about that the galactic center is the Vishnu Na'vi. It's the navl of Vishnu through which all the creative energy and intelligence that energizes and sustains this galaxy that we live in emanates from. So that's the high point of consciousness. Okay. It's it's the point in this galaxy where Vishnu manifests you know everything that we are and have from and the close that we are to that galactic center, the higher the conscious of man. So the sto our solar system is closest will be closest to that galactic center in about 10, some hundred years. It was furthest from it about 1500 years ago, which is when all the astrological calculations started getting corrupted and knowledge was lost throughout the world. But Also what happens here on a year-to-year basis when the sun is in Arjun nakshhatra the earth is as close to the galactic senna as it's going to be that year and so for that reason I my belief is why that day is considered an important day because that's the day that the earth is closest to the galactic center meaning that's when the earth is closest to the middle of mula so the fact that picks out this day that when the sun is in Arjun nikshakra being significant makes sense that it's the middle of moola that's important you know that marks the you know nikshakra not the beginning of moola so by putting the galactic center in the middle of moola we have a a scientifically more valid ayania why is it scientifically more valid well simply because it's fix it's based on something that actually is fixed that in a thousand years it'll be the same. In a billion years it'll be the same. It'll always be there exactly as it is. Whereas all the stars are changing and moving relevant to that point. So it's the only fixed point in the galaxy. Um a Swiss astronomer tried to make an iminumpta of putting the galactic center at the beginning of moola and it just didn't pan out in practice. Um it's an option in Kala and lots of other softwares but um in the put in the middle of moola works quite well. Now when we put it in the middle of moola we get an ionamia that's very close to the old ayania that used to be the prevailent ayania in India of putting revity star at the very end of revati nakshhatra and it seems that shrikeshwar himself preferred that idea in his holy science book he said that you know that you know revity star marks the beginning of this nshhatra of this signs which would have been you know aween beginning of Ashwini nakshhatra. So um he didn't mention the chitra nakshhatra he talked about revity. So this ayiona supports that those revity based ionas okay um now there's twist to this though we have to remember what nikshhatras are nikshhatras are the stellar sphere that's revolving around the earth not really revolving around the earth but appearing to do so because the earth revolving on its axis. So let's go back to the picture diagram of nshhatras. So here we've got our nshakras revolving around the earth in this diagram 27 equal portions of the sphere of the stellar sphere revolving around the earth and inside that stellar sphere we have the ecliptic and the stellar sphere here and the ecliptic are completely different things in this picture. The ecliptic is different because the ecliptic is just the motion of the sun relevant to the earth. It's the sun moving east to west up and down. Whereas the stellar sphere the nshhatras are revolving around the earth east to west. So in this diagram I hope you can see that the nshhatras are not moving along the ecliptic. They have absolutely nothing to do with the ecliptic. Does everyone get that? Does that picture convey that? Okay. So, what I'm saying here is that next have nothing to do with the ecliptic. They simply have to do with the stellar sphere which is revolving around the earth. And that stellar sphere is sliced into a 27piece pie, which each piece of the pie being 13° and 20 minutes. An interesting thing in the old textbooks when they give the positions of the stars, they don't give ecliptic longitude for the stars. What's the ecliptic longitude? Well, that's measuring the star along the ecliptic. Okay, they give it what's called a duva longitude. Duva is the what's is the north pole in this Vic astronomy. Duva means fixed. And from our point of view, the north pole is fixed and the earth revolves around it and the stars revolve around the north pole. So that um they're not actually given an ecliptic longitude. Okay. Like theiri is based on the idea that Chitra in these old books is said to be at 0 degrees cidurial Libra. It's actually not they don't even mention Libra. They say Chitra star is right in the middle of Chitra and Nakshhatra. But it's not. That was the DUVA calculation for it. If we calculate out Chitra longitudinally, well, 1500 years ago, it would have been actually 48 minutes off center from the middle of Chitra. Okay? Because they don't measure the stars in the old books based on the ecliptic longitude. Neither did the Chinese, neither did any, nor than any other ancient culture. And it doesn't make sense for anyone to measure the stars along the ecliptic because the stars have nothing to do with the ecliptic. They don't move on the ecliptic. They're not even close to the ecliptic. Some of the nshhatras are 20 30° south or north of the ecliptic. Whereas planets are always traveling within 9° north or south of the ecliptic. That means they can be 9° up or 9° below. the ecliptic the yellow line in your diagram but these stars the nshhatra stars are you know in fact one nickshhatra star has a longitude of 60 60° north that's abet other nhatras have easily 20°ree north or south longitude so they don't even fall into the path of the planet but they're given importance in vic astrology so the point I'm trying to stress here is the chakras have nothing to do with the ecliptic They don't move along the ecliptic. The old books didn't calculate them along the ecliptic, but we do. Okay, now that's the problem perhaps. What do I mean by we do? Well, if on our diagram of Nhatra's page, in the number 13, you'll see a little star in black. Does everyone see that star in black there? Okay. Now, the way that we would calculate this chhatra if we calculate it along the ecliptic is we would take a line draw it from the star to intersect the ecliptic at a 90° angle. So you see that line that's drawn at a 90° angle to the ecliptic. Well, that would be how we would find the position of that star if we use ecliptic coordinates or zodiacal coordinates and then that star would be seen to fall in nshhatra number 13. Okay? Uh excuse me in nshhatra number 14 because we're we're seeing where that line intersects the ecliptic. But if we calculated that same star based on what the duva coordinates, we would actually draw a line of straight up from the star are and see where that line intersects and we would find it actually intersects in the 13th nikhatra which is husta and not chitra. Okay. So if we calculate stars ecliptic with ecliptic coordinates we get different positions than if we calculate the stars with what's called duva coordinates. Okay, which are coordinates based on the North pole because all those lines vertical lines defining the beginning and ending of the nickshhatras are all drawn from the north pole as shown in the diagram. Okay, does everyone understand that idea that there's a difference in positions of things if we calculate them ecliptically or if we calculate them non-eclipiptically. And the difference is there because of the fact that the ecliptic is tilted to the axis of the Earth. Okay, I think it's pretty easy to see there. So, let's say that that thing that number 13 thing that that little star by the number 13. Let's make that a planet now. And we have our next chakras. We've got Nakshhatra 13. We got Nshakra 14, Nickra 15, and so on, which are illustrated real clearly in the diagram. And let's say that that star was the moon. So, that little star by number 13 is right now is where the moon is. If we calculate the nakshhatras ecliptically, we're going to get that moon at the beginning of chitra nakshhatra n chapter 14. If we calculate that same moon with a polar concept, we're going to get that moon in next chapter number 13. Now, where is it actually seen to be? Looks like number 13 to me, right? And so, yep.
I don't see star on 13.
Okay. I up I sent um some new diagrams to everyone that had the star included yesterday when I mailed out the stuff for the charts and I told you to throw those old ones out and use these two new ones.
Okay. Thank you.
Okay. So, look that up when you get home or whatever. Okay. So, start you know that
Yeah.
Oh, sorry.
I have the new one on there either.
Uh it's there. You must have mixed them up.
Nope. I got both. Did you guys have on the di the um the the natra day diagram? Did you have the sun on it? Did you have the
what?
Does anyone have it?
I don't have it.
Okay. All right, then let's just draw it there. Okay. So, what you'll want to do is about a millimeter to the right of the line between the number 13 and 14. There's a line that defines the barriers between the boundaries between 13th and 14.
About 38 of an inch down and one or two millimeters to the right of that line, just draw a dot. in at the very end of 13 about 38 of an inch down from the ecliptic which is the yellow just draw a little dot and put that shock put that planet moon there whatever we're talking about put the moon there okay after you've drawn that little moon draw a line through the moon to the ecliptic so that it intersects the ecliptic at a 90° angle And you'll see when you do that that line which is drawn at a 90° angle will go will intersect the ecliptic in the number 14 portion in nhatra number 14 instead of and not nhatra number 13. Did everyone get that result? And depending on how far north or south you drew your moon and how you know how much into nhatra 13 you drew it, it'll intersect it the ecliptic at a slightly different point. But if you did roughly what I said, you'll find at that position, the intersection would actually happen in the 14th nhatra. Okay, did everyone get that? I didn't.
Okay, that's all right.
Explain it one more time.
Okay, so about about 38 of an inch down from the ecliptic and just to the right of the line between number 13 and 14, put a dot and put it one or two millimeters to the right.
Um, well, go to nakshhatra 13
and go to the end of nhatra 13. Not at the very end, but about one or two millimeters before the end,
right?
And about 38 of an inch from the, you know, south of the equator. You see the equator there?
Mhm.
Okay. About 38 of an inch south of the equator, draw your little point.
Okay?
Then draw a line from that point to the ecliptic so that the line intersects the ecliptic at a 90° angle.
Okay?
And you'll see that that line intersects the ecliptic at Nixantra 14.
I'm not getting that. I'm going over if it's going up directly into the 13.
Yeah, if it goes up north, but you don't want it to go directly up. We're talking about making it intersect the ecliptic at 90°.
Okay. If you go straight up, it's going to intersect the ecliptic at 67°.
You see? Okay. So, the difference is if we If we measure it along the ecliptic, that's the angle that intersects 90° and it will fall in the chakra 14. If we measure the same thing along the equator or in respect to the poles, it's basically the same thing. Then it's going to be a line straight up and it would fall in number 13. So depending on how we actually calculate what reference plane we're using, we're going to get different nickshhatra positions. Okay, does everyone understand that if we measure nickshhatras along the ecliptic, we'll get different nicksh positions than if we measure n chakras in respect to the pole.
What that did you have a question someone? Okay. And if anyone has a question again you push your six button to unmute and then you can ask the question. Okay. So the fact that in the old books they give these funny you know coordinates of the nshhatras always made me curious and years ago many of you might have seen in Kala had an option for calculating the duva positions of the nickshhatras and that was an experiment I did years and years ago and I wasn't really happy with it and I didn't find it really got better result but always sort of nagged me what nagged me was that um we have another option okay like I talked about the stars have nothing to do with the ecliptic they don't move on this the ecliptic the ecliptic has to do with the the um sun and the Earth. The Earth revolves around the sun and that's the ecliptic. The stars revolve around the earth because the earth revolves on its axis. So it's the stars relevant to are really moving relevant to earth. So imagine the stars like in this diagram just revolving around the earth. Then the sensible way to calculate them is based on what's called equatorial coordinates. Now what are equatorial coordinates. To get a better idea of that, go back to your next chakra day um drawing. And that's the drawing where we're looking down upon the earth and looking straight down through the north pole. Well, equatorial coordinates are we simply divide the circumference of the earth into 27 portions and each portion is a nshhatra because that's what the nickshhatras are. They're the space surrounding earth. So we simply take that space divide it into 27 parts of 13° and 20 minutes each and there we have our nishhatras and that would be what's called an equatorial um measurement of the nshhatras. Now if we did an ecliptic division of the nakhatras meaning if we divided the ecliptic into 27 parts those 27 parts would not be the same length relevant to if we do it equatorally. The reason being because of the tilt the ecliptic has to the earth. It's the same idea just to help you understand it a little more. When you were born, there was something on the eastern horizon and there was something 90° from that called your midheaven. So on the eastern horizon was your log and 90° north of that or south of that was your your midheaven cup. And visually from your point of view on Earth, those were 90° apart. But zodiacally measured along the zodiac, they could be anywhere from 70 to 120° apart because of the tilt of the um of the zodiac of the ecliptic to the earth changes the relationships, the measurements. And it's the same thing with the nickshhatras. If we measure the nshhatras, by equatorial coordinates which means we basically cut the you know the coordinates of the equator into seven 27 portions and each portion is one nickshhatra as it extends out into space then we'll get what's 13° equatorally maybe 14° along the ecliptic in one case and somewhere else along the ecliptic what's 13° ends up being 12° along the equator. So, it skews the measurements due to that tilt of the ecliptic. But I've always wanted to run some tests with calculating nickshhatras equatorally instead of ecliptically simply because nshhatras have nothing to do with the ecliptic. They don't move along the ecliptic. They um they don't create the ecliptic. They don't they move along the equator from our point of view. don't move at all like I said. So, one thing I've done lately, I finally took the opportunity to I tested it once years ago, but I tested it more thoroughly in the last several months um of calculating the noffers equatorally and I've definitely found it to be more accurate. And you know how you'll get one chart that the dashes line up perfectly and then you get another chart where the dashes work pretty good, but it seems like everything happens a little early, just a little bit, maybe a couple weeks, and then you get another chart where the dashes line up a little later, and it's like, well, gez, if I change dumpia, maybe that's the problem. This chart will line up, but that one will line up worse. So, you know, it's kind of like you're almost in the middle, and you but you can't go either way. Well, when you calculate the chostras um equatorally instead of measuring them out along the ecliptic, In some cases the planet the the moon will advance in a nickshhatra and in another case it'll it'll go backwards in a nickshhatra. It can change all kinds of things. In one chart the nickshhatra will stay exactly the same or maybe move 1 2 3 4 minutes of arc. In another chart the nhatra may actually be changed by 3 degrees depending upon where it's falling relevant to the ecliptic. So I think perhaps one reason that there hasn't ever been able to be an agreement on ionas because whatever ionia you use if we're calculating nhatras zodiacally not you know along the ecliptic if we're cutting the ecliptic into 27 parts and saying each of these 27 parts is nshhatra well and each of those 27 parts on the ecliptic is 13° and 20 minutes when we translate that to the equatorial positions you know the space surrounding earth that the next chakras actually move through. Then the each nick chakra ends up being not 13° in 20 minutes somewhere between 12 and 14° and logically if the nickshhatras are revolving around the earth we should measure them by dividing the space around the earth into 27 parts and not by dividing the ecliptic into 27 parts. If the next chapters move on the ecliptic, then we should certainly, you know, define their space by dividing the ecliptic into 27 parts. But since they don't, since they really are just a space around Earth, let me flip this tape. Since it's really just a space around Earth, we should divide that space into 27 parts. Which means to calculate the nickshocker equal orally and I did that and I thought that would be something that it would take me a long time to test another year or two but it's like right away the results became much more clearer and I'd really recommend you all play with that if it interests you um you can download a new version of caller if you're a caller owner and there's an option under the ayania calculations for use equatorial use duva equatorial positions for nshhatras and That calculation only works with the galactic center in the middle of moola ionia. It doesn't work with any other ionia. And in some charts it'll radically change the dashes. In other charts it won't. But I have found it has worked better. Additionally to being more logical the Chinese who had believe it or not a system of 28 stars. The Hindus have 27 or 28 nsthatras. The Chinese had a system of 28 stars. and they measured them equatorally. The Hindus did some funny equatorial measurement. They didn't measure them longitudinally along the ecliptic. And so, you know, that's an area that I have found the d'aches have lined up better. The nshhatters have made more sense. Um, the Nikostra lords and sublords and sub sublord and sub sublords all the way down to four or five levels have Hey. Uhhuh.
You'll have to choose the use DUVA equatorial coordinates for nhatra.
Yeah, this would be at the bottom of the options. You may not even have it,
but it'll be at the very bottom. option.
Yeah. Undera option.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Number two is electric number.
No, no, it would be at the very bottom. At the top it gives the at the bottom it gives the correction.
So this would be use equatorial something at the very bottom. bottom.
That's the one.
That's the one I'm talking about. That will calculate your nakshhatras by dividing the space surrounding the earth into 27 equal parts
instead of dividing the ecliptic into 27 equal part because if
line of
Yeah.
And If you if you divide the ecliptic into 27 equal parts, that doesn't divide the space surrounding the earth into 27 equal parts. That will actually divide the space surrounding earth into 27 unequal parts due to the tilt of the ecliptic.
So just so everyone understands that. So if nshhatras are really the space surrounding the earth, which is what they appear to be, we should calculate them by dividing the space around earth into 27 equal parts and not by the dividing the ecliptic into 27 equal parts because the ecliptic has nothing to do with the stars.
In some charts, it can change it by three. Well, that's because when you do that, it's going to change your ionia as well because that only if you use that option, it's automatically going to put the galactic center in the middle of moola.
Okay? So, it really changed your moon probably by about 20 minutes.
So, which should I use now with the new option
with that one? You'd want to use the um DUVA galactic center iona
the duva middle of moola ionamia.
Okay, that's because the iona changes it. And if you take off that other thing, the equatorial option, it would change your moon a little bit more, which the only way you can see is by looking at the dasha.
Okay.
Okay. Cuz that won't change the ecliptic coordinates of your moon. Meaning it won't change what sign your moon is in and the degree of the sign. It'll only change where it's at in the nickshhatra. Okay. And we'll talk about that a little bit more.
Can you hear me?
Yeah. No. Gruba, galactic center, middle bullet.
And then we're checking the planet longitude.
No, it that's an older version.
What you want to check is called DUVA equatorial longitude.
I need to download that.
So you can download that. I'll give everyone a download at the end.
Okay.
So you're saying this won't change or change. Yeah, because the planets are calculated along the ecliptic, the ones that are shown in your chart. This only changes in nhatras which are now not being determined by the ecliptic but by the space surrounding earth. And the reason we're doing that is because nshhatras are the space surrounding the earth. They're not they have nothing to do with the ecliptic as I mentioned. So the way that nhatras are calculated is that as if they have something to do with the ecliptic. But that idea is not supported in the old sedantas which measure them in a funny fashion. Now the old sedantas don't measure them along the you know equatorally either the Chinese did but the the Hindu sedantas we have which are from 500 AD onward they measure them along the ecliptic but they measure them in a polar or duva fashion along the ecliptic and their positions they give are completely inaccurate where no stars are even within a degree of accuracy mostly they're three degrees or more off so the fact that they're given so very unaccurately and the fact that they have this duva idea and the fact that the the philosophical books and the astronomy books say the nshhatras move from east to west then it only made logical sense to define an extra boundaries equatorally and not ecliptically. So I went ahead and did that and I found better results with it.
Yep.
Right.
The chakras are the stars. Yeah.
Okay. Because nhatras and rashies are completely different things. Rashies move. They don't move along the ecliptic. Rashies are defined by the sun's motion along the ecliptic.
No, that's good. That's our next topic we're going to get into. Rashies are defined by the motion of the sun relevant to the ecliptic.
But one point I want to make first is is that astrology is an earth centered science. Meaning it's the heavens in relationship to earth that's important because career here on earth right so it's an earth centered science it's we don't calculate everything from the point of view of the sun because we don't live there it's an earth centered science so the nakshhatras are taken relevant to earth it's the space surrounding earth and that space is divided into 27 parts now the zodiac is not the nikshhatras the zodiac is a completely different thing The zodiac is the earth in relationship to the sun. Because what is the zodiac? It's the ecliptic. And the ecliptic is created on account of the sun revolving around earth. Now, we know it's really because the earth revolves around the sun. But from our point of view, it looks like the sun's revolving around the earth. But in either case, somebody needs to mute there. In either case, the ecliptic is the path of the sun and moon. Whereas the nickshhatras has to do or excuse me the ecliptic is the path of the sun and earth whereas the nshhatras are the path of the the um earth and the stars in rel earth in relations to the stars where the zodiac is earth in relationship to the sun. Now one other thing I want to touch on before we we go why are the nakshhatras related to the moon? The moon the are the n the nshhatras are the wives of the moon. So the moon is the lord of the nshhatras and it's the moon's nikshhatra that's of paramount importance. Well if we go back to the nshhatra day diagram the earth will revolve on its axis one time until you know whatever was on the horizon come whatever star was on the horizon comes back around is in is on the horizon again. That's when one nickshock day And in that time the moon has moved one nakshhatra through the heavens. So at night when you look up you see that jot gez the moon has moved into the next nikshhatakra and the next day the moon will have moved into another nakshhatra. So visually we observe the nikshhatras by the moon passing through the nakshhatras. And we have to remember that astrology is a visual science has to do with light. It's a joyish which is light. So we visually see the nikshhatras due to the passage of the moon through the nikshhatras. What's interesting about the moon, scientists believe that the moon is just a part of earth. It's a piece of earth that broke off and started revolving around the moon. It didn't really break off, but when the sun when the earth was formed, the moon disengaged from the the body of the earth and formed its own little planettoid. and surrounds the earth. That's all moons are, but they're originally originally same part of the composition as the earth. One of the names of the moon means round lump like a round lump of dirt because it's it's a lump of the earth. And again, this brings us to the fact that it's the relationship to the earth that's important. It's the nakhatra's relationship to the earth that's important. And they're the close the planet that's most immediately related to the earth is the moon. It's it revolves around the earth. It's a part of the earth. Okay? And it represents our earthly or worldly consciousness of the ja, right? Of the incarnated living being. So that the moon every day we see the moon moving through another nakshhatra and that's why we have 27 of them instead of 18 or who knows how many. Um you know why is there 27? Well because As the moon travels through its cycle, it'll make 27 divisions. 20. It's between 27 28. That's why sometimes there's 28 nickshhatras and sometimes there's 27. But that gives us a rough idea of what nikshhatra, you know, of the passage of the nickshhatras because of that moon. And obviously we know in astrology that that moon position is so crucial because it determines the dashes. In fact, the nakshhatra at any given moment, the planet that's important is the planet that is the lord of the moon's nakshhatra. Like if you're doing mundane astrology, you don't need to look at all the planets in the chart. The planet that matters is the planet that's the lord of the nickshhatra and the sublord of the nickshhatra and the sub sublord. Those are the planets that are making the moment happen right here and now. Okay? So you know the moon really is what brings everything into realization on earth. It's the really the connection between the heavens and the earth and that's why the the dashas based on the moon are so very crucial. Okay. But anyway, so the nakshhatras are simply the earth in relationship to space to the space surrounding us and that space is defined by the galactic center. because that's the one fixed point in our immediate space which is our Milky Way galaxy. Okay. Then we have Rashi and oh let me pull up this. Okay. Now astrology is a very old science. Astrology is probably 8,000 years old. Sirius Sedanta claims that it was given to man 8,000 years ago. And you know, we have no history of man going back 8,000 years ago. We don't have a clue about what was happening on the planet 8,000 years ago. What we do know is that all over England, they have petrified poles in the earth that mark out solstesses. They're stone hedge type things that were made out of wood 8,000 years ago. And they don't even stick above the earth. earth. The part of the of the poles that were were above the earth long ago rotted away, but the part of the poles that were sunk into the earth petrified and are still there. And there Stonehenge is only 2, someundred years old or 3,000 years old. It's a baby, but it was made out of stone, so it's more interesting to look at. But they have similar things throughout England, Scotland, Ireland even, I if I remember correctly, of of evidence of these similar structures because the poles are arranged in similar fashions and these poles are petrified into the earth and they've dated these as 8,000 years old. So they were doing astrological calculations and making astrological monument for calculations 8,000 years ago. And then we have Vadic astrology which we can trace back Vic origins you know back to even 2 3000 BC but that's not 6,000 BC you know. So when it comes down to it, we don't have a blithering clue about where astrology originated. You know, we know that ancient ancient cultures that we know absolutely nothing about were doing astrological things 8,000 years ago. But we don't know what. All we know is the Hindus had a 12-fold division of the sky of the heavens and a 27fold division of the heaven. back in the times of the vet, you know, 5,000 years ago. So, we know that and we know the Greeks had a similar con, you know, had a 12-fold division of the heavens, of the sky, the space, whatever you want to call it, you know, 2,000 years ago. But when it comes down to it, we don't really know what was before the vades, you know. So, to me, it's kind of a moot point to say astrology originated with these or these people. It means nothing to me because we don't even know the people on the planet 8,000 years ago when astrology really originated. What we do know is that the text in India and the the the traditional astrologers in India use techniques so much more vast and the text in India Parashra's text and Jaime's text have techniques that are so much more sophisticated than anything we'll find in any other culture. To me, there's no other reason to study astrology that's not vague astrology. And it's not because a v, you know, astrology originated in India. Who knows? There's no way of knowing. Astrology originated 8,000 years ago before the Arians even had anything to do with India. Or maybe we don't even know that for sure. We just don't know. What interests me about Vic astrology is that the sophistication of techniques like Shad Bala, like Isha and Kashta, like dashes, you know, just that no other culture has preserved techniques of that sophistication of that degree of interest of that that are really to me that worthy of research to the degree that the vic techniques are. So we certainly owe India for what it's preserved but we I think it's foolish to try to say astrology originated in this or this culture because it originated in the culture that we know nothing about okay 8,000 years ago. But what's interesting, Hindus use zodiacal astrology. Persians use zodiacal astrology. Greeks use zodiacal astrology. People use zodiacal astrology. Different cultures both use zodiacal astrology. And that's interesting. It's profound actually. The Mayan didn't use zodiacal astrology. At least not of the 12 signs the way we have it. But all the other cultures that we know used a zodiacal basis of astrology. There's even um evidence of Tibetan and Chinese astrology that was zodiacal. Okay. So there's this idea of zodiacal astrology. And if we envision a world where 8,000 years ago astrology was actively being pursued by a culture that we don't even know of. And as that culture faded away, other cultures sprang up at different parts of the world. And somehow these Other cultures maintained a zodiacal astrology. Makes me think that the roots of astrology were zodiacal astrology and different cultures maintain different techniques of that great culture and as a result maintained zodiacal astrology. And even though different cultures have very different techniques, use different aspects, they still all use zodiacal astrology. The very fact that they use zodiacal astrology with the same names of the same signs, you know, same meanings for the signs can only mean one thing. The astrology that the different cultures use have the same source. Most likely at a time so far away that we can't track it anymore. But it has to come from the same source. Otherwise, how can it be the same? I mean, the zodiac is the most crucial part of astrology. It's more crucial than the nshhatras. Why? Because it defines the houses. It defines the strength of the planets, the dignities, the exaltations, the debilitation. Everything is defined. The chart itself is defined by the zodiac. The nakshhatra define some aspect of the personality in the chart define the timing, but they do nothing compared to what the zodiac itself does. It's creating the whole whole structure of the chart falls upon the zodiac itself. So all these cultures have zodiacal astrology which means they have to have come from the same source. Yet there's a huge difference. Hindu culture uses trop zidurial zodiac. Western culture uses tropical zodiac. Western I mean Persians, Greeks and the modern world of Europe and so on use tropical zodiac. And that s*** doesn't makes sense to me. You know, it doesn't make sense to me that we could have take that we can take the ecliptic and on one count define it cidurially and on another count define it tropically when it's the same thing with the same names. If if Hindus had a 12-fold division of the ecliptic and the Persians had a 12-fold division of the ecliptic and the divisions were called something different and these had different names and different meanings and different exaltations. I'd say, "Oh, that makes sense for different things." But they're not. They have the same names. They have the same meanings. They have the same exaltations. They have the same debilitations. They have the same house rulerships. They're the same damn thing. But they're in India, they calculate them out. And the rest of the world, they calculate them out tropically. And to me, it just doesn't work. Doesn't make sense at all. Now, Logically, let's look at the picture. We have the ecliptic. The ecliptic is defined by the sun's apparent motion around the earth. That has nothing to do with the stars whatsoever. When you look and see the sun, do you see the star that the sun is in? No. You cannot observe a cidurial zodiac, meaning a zodiac of stars. based on the ecliptic which is created by the sun because whatever stars the sun is in front of you can't see because the sun is too bright. You only can see the stars at night and you see the stars turn from an equatorial point of view and thus we have the moon's nakshhatras which are cidurial because it is the space surrounding us and the space is cidurial. Now the ecliptic is simply the sun turning around revolving around the earth apparent revolving around the earth anyway has nothing to do with the stars. We can't see the ecliptic based on the stars. We only see the ecliptic based on the position of the sun. How do we see that? Well, when the sun is further south like it was December 21st, we see that Because when we wake up, the sun is coming in the south window of our house. And in the spring and the summer, we see the sun is coming more into into the eastern window of our house and not so much the southern window of our house. We see the sun move from north or from south to north and then at beginning June 21st from north to south. We see the movement of the sun along the eclipse. due to its spatial relationship. Is it more north or is it more south? And this is a crucial crucial thing in Vic astrology and Hindu culture because the evolution in man happens when the life force the prana is brought up the spine and then moves down again and up and down. Each one of these motions of up and down evolves us. And as the sun moves along the ecliptic It brings about a change in this life force in us and moves energy up and down our spine. So in each year that we live, we evolve as a being. And Hindu shastri say after a million years of time of that sun bringing the energy up and down our spinal column, we become in liberated beings. And the whole science of yoga is just trying to speed up that process of us consciously working with that energy in our spine instead of leaving it up to the sun and the sun is Lord Shiva the lord of the yogis who's given these techniques to us to speed up the process so this whole idea of the sun moving north south the sun reaching the equator is very important to the whole Hindu religion of yoga the whole science of yoga and all Hindu religion is really a support of yoga a scientific act you know process of development. So as the sun moves north and south, it's very important to what happens to us and to life on earth. And as the sun moves north and south, we see the ecliptic. We see the signs. Now in India, again just going back to the religious spiritual significance of this motion, it's very important when the sun begins to move north. That's called utara ayana. the northern motion of the sun. When the sun starts to move north, that's when we should start educating. Reason I'm having this class now instead of a month ago because a month ago sun was still moving south. Whenever we want to discuss new topics, teach new things or learn new things, we should do it when the sun is moving north. Bishma or um what yeah, Bishma and Mahabarata didn't want to die until the Sun started moving north because it's more auspicious to die when the sun moves north. Masters take their mahas samadis when the sun is moving north. Though that's the auspicious time to die because the energy is moving northward. It's moving towards the north pole which is the realm of the davas and not towards the south pole which is the realm of the assuras. So this idea of the sun moving north and south is very very crucial. And so in India they traditionally have a celebr celebration called the macara sranti or the ingress of the sun into Capricorn which defines the first day that the sun begins to move north and they calculate that in India on January 14th however the sun begins to move north on December 21st but somehow the modern in modern India they've managed to calculate this three weeks late And the reason they've done it is because they're calculating that ingress into Capricorn cidurially. And so when it's entering cidurial Capricorn, they're celebrating it, moving it north, but it's already been going north for 3 weeks. And so that special time where our meditations and prayers have more effect is happening three weeks late and not working. Shriekwar complained about this a 100 years ago. saying that we have to calculate the scrunchies the ingress into the sign tropically not cidurially we have to calculate the macara sunrunchy the ingress into Capricorn when the sun begins to move north on December 21st at this winter solstice tropical Capricorn yet in India somehow they managed to botch this and be three weeks late I mean it's a profound error it's not it's a profound error and it show an over reliance and over identification in the nikshhatras to the point of losing the equinoxes and the solstesses. In the surya of sedanta they're very clear on stating that the solar year determines the sun crunches the solar months the equinoxes and the solstesses while the equin and the seasons which are all tropically based motion. So the ceer season The cold season begins December 21st and lasts for 2 months until you know December 21st through January 21st up till February 21st when facant starts. So the first two signs are you know the cold sashira season and then the spring season is the next two signs and so on because these are all things based on the relationship of the sun to the earth. Now there's no doubt in most astrologers mind in India these days a lot of people have realized that we're really supposed to calculate the northern motion of the sun when it does begin to move north and not 3 weeks late if they're supposed to use it at tropical um Capricorn and not cidurial Capricorn but you have to wonder how that error could have ever happened and how such a drastic error could have occurred I mean it's huge it's not just some little thing It shows a lack of the knowledge of procession. And if we read the article I wrote, I won't spend much time talking about it. If you read the article I wrote, I talk a lot about how the text, the philosophical text as well as the cider um the astronomical text we have between 100 and 600 AD all show that the authors did not know about procession. Procession is how the equinox moves relevant to the stars. So it's how the ecliptic moves relevant to the nshhatras. They lost the knowledge of that and as a result they started doing everything based on observing the stars and not observing anything else. And that was the dark age of Kalyuga, the dark age of astrology and science throughout the entire world where in the west all the books got burnt and everyone you know people were getting burnt at the stake and not allowed to practice their occult sciences and the loss of the pagan religions which al which were more yoga type religions in preference of Christianity and in India simp not so much having knowledge destroyed but losing understanding of certain things and one of them they lost was the understanding of the procession of the equinautal points through the stars. So they started identifying the northward motion of the of the sun with a star and as the the the equinox progressed through the stars. All of a sudden, the sun's moving north for three weeks and it's still at the same star because they forgot that the the the ionas, the solstice points and the equinautal point, basically the ecliptic moves processes relevant to the stars. And so they create this huge error. And here we have a world of zodiacal astrology with two zodiacs. And the zodiac that is support the cidurial zodiac which is supported by the Hindu culture has made serious errors in calculating out solar months which are tropical months named Aries, Taurus, Gemini, etc. And so there's more evidence that the tropical zodiac is correct simply because the Hindus lost the knowledge of procession while maintaining their great sophistication of sophistication of techniques. The western cultures lost their technique but because they didn't have nikshhatras they didn't have a stellarbased system of astrology like the Hindus did they did not lose their rashies their signs of the zodiac so this is something that I wondered about and I started testing things with the idea that nikhatras and rashis are completely different things as evidenced by a simple cursory even cursory glance that astron They're completely different things. So why are we measuring them the same? If they're different things, let them be different is what I say. So I started trying things with cidurial nickshhatras and tropical rashies and I tested technique upon technique upon technique. The reason I cited tested because it just honestly it just came to me one day. Nikhatras and Rashis are different. Rashis are tropical. Nikhatras are cidurial. And so I started testing it and I found I took a technique and it worked better in tropical. I took another technique, it worked better in tropical. Every technique I've tested to date has panned out better using tropical signs than cidurial signs. And it's gotten to the point where I have not I have lost complete confidence in cidurial rashies. I have no confidence in cidurial rashies whatsoever. Or I have great confidence in tropical rashies. simply because every technique I've tried has panned out better in tropical rashies and logically I think it makes sense when we consider that astrology is time in India the solar year is based is a tropical year based on tropical signs the the tropical the solar month of Capricorn starts December 21st the solar month of Aquarius starts 30 days later These are things that people don't argue about. India, the solar months are tropical. Even though they're still calculating the solar months 3 weeks late, most astrologers know now that that's not the right way to do it, but they don't care enough to change it. In fact, in 1950, they the Indian government wrote into law that they had to use tropical months for the scrunties and the moving north of the sun and the ionas and the solstesses because that's what it is but they don't enforce it because they don't care enough to enforce it. But all the scholars who got together in the 50s to work on these calendar problems of India because there was so much controversy agreed that the solar months are supposed to be tropical months as according to Sria Sedanta as according to Shriwar but they don't care enough to enforce it but they're at the point between the 1950s and 1008 where they started calculating those solar months cidurially to the point that they have now a 3-w week error in their calculations. So the fact that they did that supports the idea that India used to use tropical zodiac and gravitated towards the cidurial zodiac when they lost the knowledge of procession. The 12-fold division of the ecliptic is talked about in the vadas and also talked about in other books simultaneously with the six-fold division when India the six-fold division is the seasons they have six seasons in India they don't have four seasons like we do they have six and those seasons are defined tropically
yeah if you're if you're making any noise you really need to mute your phone there just push the fix button again sometimes people don't know that they're not muted um So, as you read in the article, I don't want to recover it all over again because it'll take some it'll take too much time. There's a lot of evidence supporting the ancient Hindus before 500 AD using tropical zodiac. And in proceeding to test it, I haven't found one technique that worked better with cidurial zodiac. Not a single technique. They've all worked better with tropical with nshakras being calculated. As I talked about, nshakras are cidurial. not tropical. Now there's a bunch of astrologers in India these days who've seen the same errors in the old books as I have that they seen that there was no mention of procession in the old books from 100 to 600 AD. They see that the authors of those old books correlate the beginning of Aries to the vernal equinox that they attribute the beginning of a schweeny to the vernal equinox as well. And these astrologers are saying that rashis are tropical and so are nakshhatras which doesn't make any sense at all. The reason the authors between 100 and 600 AD said that aween nakshhatra starts with a um Aries rashi is because they lost the knowledge of procession. The older um you know astrologers knew that the equinoxes moved through the chakras. If we like I talked about earlier, some books talk about the vernal equinox being in Taurus or Miger Shira, you know, because the vernal equinox, which is zero tropical area moves through the nickshhatras. But if we read the book between 100 and 600 AD, it shows that they did not know that the vernal o equinox moved through the nshhatras. So this group of astrologers in India nowadays are saying nshhat are tropical too, but they're not looking at the books before that which very clearly show the equinoxes moving through the nickshhatras which would only happen if the nickshhatras are cidurial. Um, so there's a lot of controversial issues at stake today, but I found that working with cidurial nickshakras and tropical signs works better um in all the techniques I've tried and I've been testing this for actually over two years now. I got the idea of it almost three years ago and about 8 months after I started thinking about it, I started researching it really seriously which and that really was the largest part. Most of my time researching these last two years and two months have been on tropical signs with my durial nshhatras and like I said every technique I've managed to research which now I've managed to research my whole gambit of techniques as well as Jamie stuff has worked better and with making mundane predictions, which I've been doing a lot of lately. I've had better results as well with tropical signs in describing the details of something. For instance, when I predicted I would move into a brown house that, you know, I purchased a brown house earlier or last year, I had predicted a brown house based on my tropical zodiac because one thing I never found working with zodiac was the describing the things, the color of things, the size of things. Those are all defined largely by the qualities of the rashis. With cidurial zodiac, those things just never added up. The descriptions just didn't work. Supposed to get a red car and you get a green car. And I found those things worked out much much better with tropical signs. Now, timing is not necessarily the best way to test the zodiac because timing is handled by nsthatras. And so if you use nikhatra dashes, you're going to have the same nikshhatra regardless of whether you use cidurial or tropical sign. But in describing things and it with working with techniques that are mathematically centered where how close the planet is to exaltation does make a difference where the dignity makes a crucial difference because if a if the moon is in Virgo it can be in a friend's house and there for dream or you know dreaming whereas if it's in Libra it'll be sleeping and totally ineffective makes a huge difference when you're dealing with precise techniques so the techniques I've been using from parashra as many of you know with these avostas the planet in one sign is completely ineffective and another sign effective makes a huge difference when you're using tropical or cidurial signs and all Those techniques I found to work better with tropical signs and people who um I there's been a few people I've talked about this too the last few years who having tested tropical signs with you know um methodical scientific mathematical techniques also agreed they worked better. In fact one person who tested it haven't talked to him in about three weeks but at that point his test had showed that he found techniques were working 70 75% of the time with tropical compared to 35 40% of the time with cidurial and if he wants to comment on that feel free to Dave do you want to add anything to that he might have had to run
are you talking about when I went through my chart files and looked at
Yeah yeah yeah because I haven't talked to you in the last three or four weeks about that how how have your researchers tested since then Well, unfortunately, I have had some computer problems, so I haven't been doing too much research since then, but
okay.
What I did is I looked at uh oh, maybe 25 of my charts of people that I know really well, and I looked at house lordship for accuracy of description, tropical versus curial, sort of house by house. And it was pretty clear 75% of the time the tropical did a better job of describing was talking about based on house lordships than if I used the serial house lordship and it was a fairly simple sort of test but I only wanted to do it on people who I really knew them very well personally so I could independently corroborate the characteristics
okay and really that's the defining thing with rashies is their characteristics if a rashi showing a a greenhouse and we get a brown house. There's something wrong in that picture. And I've one thing that's always bothered me about cider rashi, I mean I've made a lot of predictions with with just cidurial zodiac and I was happy with lots of predictions but I was never able to nail the qualities the way you know I was I know I expected myself to be able to. Um you know Noel Till he's a western astrologer he you know he would make predictions with praa and stuff where he would you know he based on rashis he would determine the height the art the lost article was the the direction everything it would be exactly that way and I never had that luck with cidurial signs doing project I just it never the details never added up then I remember last year when I was experimenting with tropical my dad visited then he left got to the gas station found out he'd lost his wallet so he comes running back stressing out about looking for his wallet. So, he's running around the house looking for his wallet, trying to figure out where my kids stole his wallet, too. So, while he was running around half mad, yelling at kids, I um cast a chart and the chart showed it would be in his vehicle in the south side of his vehicle. So, I went out there and this is with tropical rashies. I went out there and started searching through the south side of the car. So, I looked at the direction where the car was parked. Went to the south end of the car, started digging through that part of the car. And my dad comes, he goes, "What are you doing?" I said, "I'm going to get your wallet here." And you know, he said, "It's not there. I know I didn't put in my car." I said, "It's certainly in this part of your car." And I kept digging and sure enough, in the south side of the car was his wallet. Now, had I used cidurial zodiac, it would have been in the west side of his car where it wasn't. So, countless examples of those type of details. And also the build of people, you know, what how tall are you? How big are you? Are you big boned? Are you small boned? Is your spouse big boned? Is your spouse small boned? Those things never added up well with tidal zodiac. But tropical zodiac, they work very nicely um much much more accurately. And that's really most people when they try to test, they just test timing. And they're using cidurial rashi testing timing with different ionas. which really does not do a whole lot for testing for the rashies. If we're going to test rashis, we have to test them with techniques where that are mathematical where a planet dramatically changes from being able to do something to nothing if it changes sign to um and also defining the details of something. What color is it? What direction is it in? And with those types of things in everything I've tested, there's not been a single instance of anything I've tested where cider rashies worked out better. And that honestly was a really depressing thing to me. You know, it wasn't something that I I would have been a much happier individual had I tested everything and found out the cidurial works better in every case or even 50% of cases I would have been a happy individual as it was. In every case I've tested, tropical rashies panned out better than tidal rashies. And most of you have taken my class and knows the kind of techniques I'm talking about not techniques where you tune into the chart and make your guess, but techniques where you buckle down, you go through the process, you do the math, and you see the answer at the end of the equation, and it'll be dramatically different. And it's not about using your perceptive ability. Astrologers who use a perceptive ability, obviously, the calculations are not that significant because like I talked about, there's the astrologers in India making good predictions using calculations were completely inaccurate where in one chart the number is 20° another chart the number ends up being 23° because their calculations are completely erroneous but they can still pick out things pertinent to that person. So there's a difference between reading a chart through our perceptive ability and doing scientific astrology and with the more scientific the astrology meaning the more we actually using a technique that we're following through on that we're doing calculations. Those techniques don't allow for error in calculations. The smallest error in calculations in those techniques will give you the wrong answer because it's astrology being done scientifically where everyone who did the technique would arrive at the same answer. If you look at astrologers like that example I gave of that woman, she went to 10 different people, asked them 10 different asked them all the same 10 questions. I got different answers for every question. There's a reason that we're laughed at by the scientific community. Here we have the greatest science of all time, the super science of astrology. You know, there's no science equal to the science of astrology. It's the most profound of all sciences. And yet, you we're laughed at by the scientific community. And honestly, I don't blame them a single bit. that when you see how unscientific astrologers are, you know, I can't blame scientists for not looking upon it as a science. But we are science and we have to regain our scientific roots. And that means testing things, not being religious about it, but scientifically testing things in a mathematical fashion, not a half-hazard intuitive tuning into psychic sort of reading type fashion. Hell, if I just wanted to do reading, means I wouldn't do astrology. It's too damn hard. I would do tarot cards or cast chicken bones or something, you know, something easy. Astrology is hard because it's a real science. And until astrologers actually agree on their principles, we'll always be laughed at. You know, if you have if we have metallurgists, people in in material sciences, and one material scientist says that gold melts at 400, you know, 1500 degrees, and another m material scientist says gold melts at 2,000°, we're going to laugh at them. We're not going to take them seriously. But that's what we're doing. You know, that's what us astrologers are doing. One of us is saying this is dasha. Another person says this is the dasha. And we're being laughed at by the scientific community. And astrologers say, well, astrology is a science, but it's also an art. That's what they say. They say, well, it's more an art than a science. Lots of astrologers say that. And so when lots of astrologers don't even think astrology is a science, how can we expect the world in the scientific community to respect us as scientists? We can't. You know, astrology is a shastra. It's a science. You know, so
um yes, let me just finish one thought here before I forget it. Astrology is an art and it's a science just like art. Painting is an art and a science. Music is an art and a science. The scientific aspect of music is in the notes in the creation of sound. It's a scientific process. It only happens one way. The scientific part of art is it only happens one way. Putting lines of certain thicknesses together with lines of other thicknesses on the same page will make that page look different to the human eye at different distances. If you're 5t away, it can look like one thing, but if you go 20 foot away, the lines will blend differently. It can look like a different thing. It's scientific. It's based on what the eye can see. What happens when we put two different colors together is scientific. Only one thing happens. When we, you know, everything in art is scientific. If you do a certain thing with paints and colors, you get one specific scientific result. It's the same every time. Not That's why the old art masters spent years studying the science of art. How colors combine, how colors next to you make different things happen, how different lines can change the perspective of things. You know, recently I got in, you know, you get these math emails of a picture of a on the left of a mean guy and on the right of a nicel lookinging guy. And when you looked at the picture from three or four foot away, that's what it looked like. Nice guy or a mean guy on the left, nice guy on the right. But if you got 10t away from the picture, the guy on the left looked nice and the guy on the right turned into the mean guy because the artist used art to draw the lines in such a way that a diff at a different distance the lines blended to make the pictures change. So that's science to that. Art is a completely scientific thing just as is astrology. But then there's the artistic part of art which is how does the artist present the composition and that's the artistic part. And in astrology, we have the same thing. Astrology is 100% scientific. An aspect of this planet in this condition only does one thing. There's no two ways. There's the right way and then there's the sort of right ways which are wrong ways. It's a science. And if we don't understand the science completely, we'll be doing it sort of the right way and getting sort of right answers. But if it's really scientific, it means we really know the melting point of bowl and gold will melt at that point every single time. That's when we really are doing the science correctly. That's what astrology is. It's that scientific. And then there's the art to it. And that's the presentation to it. Just like how colors combine and relate is a science. How the artist presents that on his canvas is the art. It's how we present what we get from the chart. That's the art of of astrology and so everyone's going to be doing astrology differently and presenting their client with something different and that's the art of it but astrology is a science and it it's supposed to be a science shear said astrology is a science but it's a fallen science yoga nandanda didn't like people going to astrology because he knew how sloavvenly we all were what poor practitioners of a great art we were so people who are scientific-minded want to research things And most of you all are scientific minded. Otherwise, you wouldn't care about hearing a class on because you've seen things not line up as much as you want. You know, your expectations for success have not been where you feel in your bones they should be maybe. And so, you test things. You try things. When it doesn't work, you think about it. Meaning, you're taking a scientific approach to astrology, which is the approach that astrology needs if it's ever going to be a really considered a true science again and not just an enter containment art which is what is largely considered by by the majority of the world. So my research is you know these are some things I've been working on. There's a lot of inconsistencies in the old book and I tried to understand those inconsistencies and work on corrections for the nickshhatras and work on possible errors in the zodiac and um I'm very happy with using these equatorialbased nickshhatras um things have added up much more nicely and I'm even more satisfied with the results I'm getting from tropical rashi. It was just a process of after testing every technique I could do losing faith in durial sign because I just didn't see them add up. They just didn't add up anymore and in every test tropical one. It's sad but true. I'm sorry you had a question.
Yeah. Um so you're are still calculated cidurally.
Yes. N chakras are the cidurial sphere, the stellar sphere surrounding us.
Okay. So, so they're affecting only timing.
No, each planet is in its nickshhatra and based on that nickshhatra that planet is going to have a certain quality and manifest a certain way. Right. You bet.
So, are they still finding us the same? I mean, are we still getting zero the beginning of that or
No, no, not at all. Right now,
a zero A a Sweeney is falling in um what is it? It would be falling in Oh gosh, make sure I don't do it the wrong way.
In no Ashweeni would be falling in the um end of Aries and not the beginning of Aries now. And Bini is falling in Taurus now instead of in Aries. And it as it moves it chang in you know in several thousand
what's that
when you go cidurial but we're actually effectively moving the planets the planets will be in the same nickshhatra unless you use if you're using a different numpia the planets will change their nickshhatra position but the planets are in the same nickshhatra
but the sign advances 20 degrees forward
so when a planet was at the beginning of a Sweeney it was at say a planet's at one degrees of Sweeney that would put it at 21 degrees Aries. Now
if a planet's at 15° or say a planet at 2° of bari which would be about middle of cidurial Aries it would be at 5° Taurus tropically. So they're different things. Nakshhatras and rashis are completely different things. Observationally they're different. We observe nshhatras as the star as the moon moves through the heavens in relationship to the stars and we observe the rashies on account of the sun moving north and south along the ecliptic. We don't
of the entire thing in terms of the the planet within a sign within everything shifts the whole flavor of reading chart if you're reading it in that manner meaning looking at a planet where it's in the solar chart and Sorry.
Yeah.
The planets are no longer
Exactly. So Aries is not part of aweeny. See what happened is the Greeks are the first people to name the stars Aries, Taurus, Gemini etc. All old cultures had ancient names for those stars. You know the you know the first few you know you know basically the Greeks took aweeny, birani and partic. And that was in my opinion when the worst things that ever happened to astrology. You know, they took the ancient constellations which had had names for thousands of years and renamed them Aries, Taurus, etc. And all stars, you know, they're they're labeled after divinities. All the nakshhatras are divinities. They're deities. They're in the heavens and they're deities because they're in heaven where deities belong. And they took those stars and named those deified stars by earthly creatures. So all of a sudden he took these de are the ashwins, the the the Ashwins, you know, and we labeled them a ram. I mean, how would you feel if you were a deity doctor, you know, who marries the son's daughter because you're such a great deity and all of a sudden everyone starts calling you a ram, you know, starts calling you an earthly creature. It's pathetic, but that's what happened. They took the Greeks took the old stars and named them after earthly creatures. And the very fact that the rashies are named after earthly creatures shows that they're an earth centered thing. They're based on tropical signs, which is an earth centered phenomenon. If they were based on the stars, they should have heavenly names. The nshhatras have heavenly names. The planets are deities. The nshhatras are deities. Yet the rashis are named after earthly creatures because of the fact that the rashies are earthbased meaning they're calculated on the relationship of the earth to the sun which is tropical. So for those of you who this interest again a lot of the information that I've been able to dig up on the pros and cons or not you know information supporting tropical and supporting cidurial I wrote down in that thing the mystery of the zodiac there every information I could find that would support cidurial and tropical I wrote it down and then I and that's all in the art article. So I would suggest you review that and then if you're curious test it in Kala I have an option now where you can use tropical rashis with your ayania for using the numpamia for your nakshhatras and that option's been there for about two years now I believe um because I've been working with that option and tested for two years and like I said every technique I found tested out better with tropical um so those of you who are re research minded and those of you who have found things not adding up to your satisfaction, I suggest you try my nakshhatra idea, try my zodiac idea and see how it works for you. Now, everyone uses different techniques and some techniques are just not going to be as sensitive to a rashi change or not. If you're just using planets and houses, some astrologers are masters of using planets with houses and most of their reading is based simply on the house that the planet it's in often times that's not going to change from tropical to cidurial signs. You're using techniques like I use where the dignity hugely impacts this planet where the degree of this planet in the sign hugely impacts it whereas if it's in the middle of a sign it has a lot of power at the end of the sign it may have no power that those things get dramatically changed when we move from tropical to cidurial and with those more precise techniques. Those are the ones I found were so much more accurate with tropical zodiac. Imprecise techniques, the zodiac's not going to be as critical. The more precise the technique, the more precise the calculations have to be. If we're using scientific techniques, we have to have correct calculations. With unscientific techniques that just kind of get us pointed in the general direction and our intuition does the rest, it doesn't matter. And that's why astrologers have been able to do do good work even with different ionas where everyone disagrees on the ayamia. So I would encourage you to test some of these ideas myself unfortunately or fortunately God will determine I've lost complete faith in spidial signs and one reasons one of the prime reasons I'm even having this little course here is not so much to say hey this is how you have to do it or you're stupid that's not my purpose in talking to you at all today it's simply because so many of you have been studying with me and so many of you have been taking classes with me. Um it's just sort of my responsibility to tell you what conclusions I've come to. Um even though I know that to many of you are not going to like these conclusions and um and some of you hopefully will like them, but I've gotten to the point where I just can't use the fidural zodiac anymore because I've seen it fail so many more times than I've seen the tropical zodiac. fail with the techniques that I use.
Next time you go to India,
what's that?
The next time you go to India,
um, I don't even think I'll have to go that far.
Pretty radical.
I think I could just meander down to an ACRA conference probably.
Exactly.
But it's nice to know that if the world gets too tough, there's always somebody out there to kill you, you know.
But again,
um, go ahead. Yeah. Question. I didn't text when you where you said the date for being the beginning that starts at what date. You might remember I did have a whole chart using
um with the um equatorial coordinates for the next chakras. I don't remember off the top of my head when Um, no. You'll have to just recalculate all that. Just set your calculations and go through it and change it all.
Oh, I don't know. You'll have to calculate it out.
Yeah, just check that option or that equatorial option. You can check it out.
Okay. So, I know these ideas are really revolutionary, but if we look at things, there's a lot of things in astrological calculations don't add up. Why do they calculate the nanthatantra's stars in a weird fashion? Why why do they give the positions of the stars in a strange fashion and not an ecliptic fashion? Why did they not have any evidence? Why did they not know about the procession of the equinoxes? These are all facts. My conclusions from these facts could be wrong. My researchers may be invalid. But the facts are that these astronomically things I talk about these astronomically funny things are facts which means that there's something wrong in the picture and my what I've been working on the last two years is trying to figure out what exactly is wrong in the picture. There's certainly something wrong in the picture as I hope the first part of this class brought clear to everyone. What exactly wrong? Well, my belief is after my research intension is that rashis are meant to be tropical and the chhatras are meant to be calculated as equatorial space and not ecliptic space. I could be wrong in those conclusions. You know, God only knows in the end whether anyone's right or wrong on this planet. But we certainly we certainly know that there's inconsistencies in the calculations and we know they lost knowledge of procession and we know that that's impacting our astrology. So if you think you can come to better conclusions than I can, I think you or you should research it. If you're bothered by the fact that there's inconsistencies in the teachings we've been handed down, that's the main point I want to make. You know, tackle those problems.
Excuse me. How do we test uh for cidial and practical in the program?
Okay. You'll have to once you you'll have to just under the iona option there's a option that says use tropical signs with the above iona. And by clicking on that the next will be tidal.
The only thing you have to do is check use tropical.
Yes, use tropical signs with the above ionumptia.
I'm sorry.
With the above ionia, which means the selected and then if you have the 2006 version, you can download a a new version and and um with has the equatorial nshhatras as well. Okay. And then that will be another check box that says you don't use planet through the longitude for
no this is a new option that says use equatorial um longitude for the nickshhatras.
Okay. And that's how
yeah I don't know if you have that one the
I just prove the longitude.
Okay. So the if you have the 2006 version. You can download this otherwise you're going to have problems. Okay.
Okay.
Um but it's at vdicastrology.net forward slash osc.
Okay. I'll just email everyone on the mailing list. Okay. Yeah. Um um
Okay. Okay. I'll email everyone. No problem.
So So again, like I said, any
I have a question.
Good.
Hello.
Yeah.
Hello.
Hi.
I have a question. You said that moon moves uh through one nakhatra each day.
Yeah.
That can that can happen only if moon moves in a uh equatorial plane. But it is not so. moves in an inclined plane something like ecliptic but
in a different inclination. Yeah.
In that case moon can move a moon moves isn't that correct?
Yes. The moon moves roughly through one nick chakra in one day but it it can literally be anywhere from 21 to 28 hours. It it varies very dramatically. You you're totally correct. So it's approximate it's an approximate view of the nakshhatra is the moon moving through one nickshhatra a day.
All right. Okay. Thank you.
You bet. Yeah. The moon is of all the planets moves the most radically. It can move very fast and very slow and then it can move its latitude changes more dramatically than any planet as well. And so it will move through the nshhatras very inconsistently. Um you you know and roughly averages 23 hours in minutes on average, but it can be two to three hours different on either end. Okay.
So, right now you're using dua equatorial coordinates.
Yes.
Galactic center in the middle of
Yeah.
And using the sign tropical sign and equatorial longitude for the
Yes.
Okay.
So,
did you email us that information as well?
Yes, I'll add that in the email
that would be wonderful. Thank you.
So everyone can work with that if it interests you and if it doesn't think about the problems you know why do they measure stars in a strange fashion you know why is why do Indians calculate the sun moving north three weeks late you know when other people have told them to do it correctly you know when shrieks picked up the error where the the scholars in the 50s picked up the error um you know the Indian scholars in the 50s that were trying to sort out the calendar problems where the government discovered the error. You know, there's enough inconsistencies that we know there's something wrong with our calculations. Like I said, and if you don't believe my conclusions, then I would just suggest that you, you know, consider that there are inconsistencies and work on them and try to figure out, you know, make sense of those inconsistencies, which is basically all I've really done. Trying to make sense of things that don't make sense. Trying to come to ical conclusions that support astronomy that support the idea of the universe as the ancients gave it and then they test it on techniques as a final step to see which works better because in the end it's what works better that has to be correct and what works better should be logical otherwise it's probably still not the best thing you know she khwar used to say when it comes to spiritual and philosophical matters if it's not logical it's not true And and that's a profound statement that lets us know that religion is scientific. It is it's the science of yoga. Human behavior is scientific. You know, we may not understand the science, but that doesn't mean it's not a science. And really, when it the truth is when it comes to astrology, we're trying to understand the science better than the people did 100, 500, 1500 years ago. We don't have the astrology of the Mahabaraka. We don't have the astrology ology that was happening at the time of Lord Rama. We have a you know a relatively pathetic version of it but we still have a grand science even as it is. Even as it is we're doing better than doctors and acupuncturists. We're still better than them and we're really just getting started here with this. There's a renaissance on astrology in the entire world. The Greek old Greek astrology is coming back. The Jam sutras is coming back. Briat Parashra is coming back. Briat Parasha was lost for over a thousand years when no one was using the techniques in parashra for at least a thousand years and more likely longer. If we look at the astrology books between 100 and 600 AD they didn't even use vimstructur dasha. Can you believe that they they were using tropical signs because they didn't know about procession. We don't know if they thought they were using tropical or if they thought they were using cigural but we know they were calculating Aries from the vernal But they also didn't know about procession. But the dashes they used were based on how far the planet was from its exultation determined the dasha length. And the dasha order was based upon um planets and angles first followed by planets in this 2 5 8 and 11 followed by planets in 3 6 9 and 12 houses. And there's no mention in these books of vimshhatri dasha. You know we just don't see it. Verah Mahira doesn't use them dasha. Um and it's quite interesting that they didn't at that time. Um so it's been a long time since Jamie Sutra Sutra's astrology and since Brat Parashra astrology has been the mainstream astrology that you know that the collective astrologers were using. Um they haven't been they've been using astrology from the Yavana Jatica book. from Baraha Mahira which is quite different. It's not as methodical. It's more yoga based. Um they did use Ashtaka Varga but it wasn't as mathematically centered as Pashra and it wasn't as methodical as Ja sutras which are the two texts that give techniques. In fact Jaime sutras is actually called upadesha sutras and upidesha is the is the basic methods. So when we teach you how to add and subtract That's the upidesha that's the basic method the methodology and his techniques are the methodology and prostrate is the mathematical and they're both scientifically viable method methodical systematic do at the same time every time techniques or you don't guess you do the technique and see and those are techniques that interest me because to me astrology is a science I'm not I don't do astrology because I want to help people if I wanted to help people I'd be doing it in the easier way I'd be doing the Egyptian astrology cards or tarot cards really easy and a very very effective systems which brings one last thing I want to mention it's always bothered me about numerology that they use January 1st as the beginning of the year you know they use western dates in order to come up with meaningful things in our life and because the western calendar has nothing astronomical about about it that I've ever been able to discover. It is an arbitrary calendar. January 21st has no relevance to anything astronomical. But the interesting thing is when we calculate out the nikshhatras equatorally as an equatorial division instead of an ecliptic division like I talked about today. Then the kali yuga started believe it or not on January 1st which I was really shocked. I really surpris tried to find cuz that's actually the only astronomical evidence I've seen of January 1st having any significance whatsoever is that it is the beginning of the years as calculated from the beginning of the yugas with kali yuga starting it and it started on January 1st. So I don't know if it's coincidence that we happen to start our year January 1st or maybe somehow they knew that when they defined the calendar that to use these days or if it's just sheer coincidence but those numerology systems work the practitioners get results and um the Egyptian card system which is based on western dates works and that's the only astrological reasoning I've found from it is that kaluga the ascending kal yuga which starts this ascending cycle that we're in started on a January 1. So anyway that's something interesting correlative of this way of calculating nshhatras Does anyone have any questions? Anything that astronomically you that wasn't what was unclear? Anything?
I have a question.
Uhhuh.
Um you said in that um thing that you sent over that actually the Greek astrology was developed in Egypt.
Oh there's a legend that well it's it's all legend and myth and supposition but um oh the the Tommy said that astrology came from the the Egyptians. The legend of the Sirius Sedanta is that the knowledge of the Surya Sadanta was given to someone an assura by the name of Maya who perpetuated the sun because he wanted to know about the mysteries of the planetary motions which until we can calculate the planetary positions we can't do astrology right so he perpetuated the sun at the end of the satya yuga which would have been 8,000 years ago the sun came to him and said he would teach him but that he can't teach him in his present form because he's too bright and he'll he'll get hurt if he studies with the sun, you know. But he said that he would because of a curse of a Brahman, he the son had to be incarnated as a barbarian meaning a non-Hindu, you know, in Avanti. No, I'm sorry, in in Roma and that he Assura Amaya should travel to um Roma and and meet him there and then he'd teach him. So the sura traveled from India supposedly to Roma which is a quarter of the way around the world from India. It's off the coast of Egypt in the middle of the ocean where there's nothing these days and learned astrology from this barbarian. Learned the astrological calculations from a barbarian who was really an incarnation of the sun. So that myth is true. The roots of astrology are off the coast of Africa. several hundred miles off the coast of Africa in and by a barbarian who was an incarnation of the sun. And I you know it's a myth. We can't attribute a lot to it. But the very fact that this myth even exists and that it points to 8,000 years ago where we have lots of archaeological evidence of man having created astronomical things 8,000 years ago supports the idea that You know, this is an 8,000-y old science. God only knows where the roots of it were before. The cultures that are alive in India now were not the cultures that were alive in India 8,000 years ago. The Vic culture, you know, the Harian culture and all those cultures, those old ancient Indus Valley cultures. We have archaeological evidence going back, I think, back to 5,000 years from now. But we don't know anything about those cultures from 8,000 years ago.
We don't know if it was western or eastern where it was. No, I think that and this was from a higher age. In a higher age, man's understanding would have been greater. So man would have used a more complete system of astrology as a result. Then as the conscious of man declined because it was a descending age, man would have only been able to understand a fraction of their astrological systems. And so astrology would have naturally become fractured where different cultures are maintaining different techniques because no culture was able to maintain the entirety of what the older cultures had. So my view is how I envision it that astrology was a one c the the whole world used similar astrology. You know the astrology was a vast vast system and as the conscious of man declined different cultures as cultures became more separated and separated and waring more and more with each other they maintain different aspects of a larger system. And so there is no western, there is no Hindu astrology, there is no Indian astrology, there is no Persian astrology, there is no Egyptian astrology, there's only Vadic astrology. Vadic simply means true. There's only true astrology. There's only the real astrology. Okay? And different cultures have maintained, changed, perverted and even perverted different aspects of that one true Vic astrology. And so the the to me the the techniques that have seemed to be the most sophisticated and the most truthful are those found in Ja Sutras and Briat Parashra which are the only texts wi that which are the texts that are the least dark age text of anything available. I'm sorry. Go ahead.
I wanted a quick question. You know when you talked about that quarter of the earth west of India that'd be off the coast of Africa.
Yeah.
I wonder if that might coincide with Atlantis a great man.
Okay. Very well could be.
Yeah. In the Hindu books they talk about four great cities set at 90 degrees from each other along the equator. One was Lanka south of India. The other one was Roma off the coast of Africa. The other one was Yamakoti which was east of India by 90°. And that one um was considered the ancient prime meridian. And there's we're right where that city is supposed to be. There's huge ruins and structures underneath the ocean. So that city did exist. We have archaeological evidence of a city having been at that place. So you know and these are very very ancient ancient places which you know have sunk under the ocean. They're so old but they existed. So it's really profound the knowledge of these ancient Hindus. They knew they knew the world was round. They never forgot that the world was round even though they lost knowledge of procession. between 100 and 500 600 AD. They still knew the world was round. They knew there was a north pole and a south pole. They knew it took the sun 6 months to rise at the north pole and a day to rise or half a day to rise and set on the equator. They knew all those things. So it was really profound what they knew. But somehow they lost knowledge of procession. You know it was the Kaluga. They had to screw something up. You know what I mean? And it's still amazing what India has maintained compared to other cultures. The whole roots of mathematics, computer science, modern numbers all come from India.
So today's Greek astrology then is more similar to the western astrology that
um no I would say the Greek astrology is somewhere in the ancient Greek astrology seems to be somewhere between the the western and the vic
which is what your what your new theories are actually also right.
No I I like the vic. techniques. I like the techniques of posture. I like the techniques of Jamney. But any technique will work with the correct zodiac because it's not a matter of just because I'm using tropical zodiac doesn't mean I'm doing western astrology.
Now, why were you saying that eastern astrology is I mean Egyptian astrology is so easy. What?
Oh, the Egyptian astrology is not really an astrology per se. They basically identify your birthday with a playing card with a an ace of clubs. And based on the symbolism of the ace of clubs, they define your character and your purpose in life. And then based on your birthday and the year of your life, they have a pretty intricate way of determining what year you're in. And they break that year down into different planetary portions. But they don't actually cast chart. They don't use zodiac. It's not a zodiacal astrology. It's a timebased system of astrology where they break your life down into different compartments of time. And with the readings I've had, I know two of these people who are really good and I'd have to say both of them I've seen outpredict any Vic astrologer I've come across.
They've been amazingly accurate. Both of the people I know who've done this. One of them's actually on the phone. It's Marlana. Are you still here? Marlana.
I have a question.
Okay. Go ahead.
In K there are 12 options to select an answer. In your experience which option is Okay. I use the Du Duvra equ um I'm sorry it's called the Let me pull up color so I give it the right name. Do you have the 2006 version?
Okay. Um it's the Duva Galactic Center Middle of Mula. And I'm going to email everyone the things that I'm using um so it's clear. Okay. I'll email everyone out after the class. Right.
Okay. Um, go ahead.
It's kind of the same question I asked earlier, but I'm just trying to get an understanding because, you know, it's so mindbending. Um, so as back to the ship, the whole nature of human nature kind of shifts as well because you no longer have Venus being a nakshhatra lord in you know.
Exactly. The whole human nature shifts in accordance with the perception of the equinoxes. And that's why We have the different yuga. As that shift happens, man becomes more evolved and less evolved. So really aweeny being in the beginning of Aries is the least evolved way man can behave. Whereas a schweeny falling in Libra is the most evolved that man can behave.
Oh, I see. You're saying.
So you bet.
Now you're saying so let's use critic as an example because that one probably shifts the most. It's no longer an Aries. So it's no longer Mars being influenced by a Mars energy. You think it was more about evian energy
it's a planet in Taurus will be in could be in critica now yes
okay
at the end of Taurus because you know critica was the first 10° of Taurus but now critica is more the latter part of Taurus
right
but yeah so the the the planet is going to manifest differently through the rashies in different times in different ages and it'll manifest at better or worse in better or worse ways um the Depending on the age that we're in, there'll simply be more consciousness behind the planet. And that evolution is astronomically indicated by the fact that rashies move on top of the nickshhatra.
So back and then it was zeroed with
Yeah. And now we don't have that anymore. So you can't just say, "Oh, the planet's at 10 areas. It's in aween." You have to go look at what nhatra the planet's actually in. Okay. And none of that has any class you did a while ago, does it? Or would all that still
All that stuff still works perfectly.
Okay.
Okay. Now,
you've never done anything where you've related to the to the rashies, right?
I've never done that. Lots of people have tried to derive meaning from the nickshhatras by trying to consider the rashies they fall in and stuff.
I have a basically the book trying to
Yeah. Lot of people put a lot of emphasis behind that and that idea was never attractive to me because I guess part of me always thought somehow they had to be different you know right
I didn't know that I would ever think they were this different but that's the conclusion I've come to and the the next thing I want to mention and we can just have open discussion or questions until the phone line gets cut off um is that for those of people who are interested in playing with this idea you're welcome to call me and we can talk about your chart we you know and compare things. Um, you could say, well, I I I was always like this because I have my Mars in Cancer and I I was always like this. How can tropical be right? And we can say, hey, but are you like this, this, this? And, you know, we can basically work with your chart or chart and, you know, help. I'm willing to basically sit down with people and talk to you about the merits in your chart or another chart on cidurial tropical.
You sure you want to do that?
Yeah. So, and so if anyone can email me or call me on that. I'll send my, you know, if you have my email, just email me and we can make an appointment and discuss those types of things and we'll see how many people are interested in doing that. Um, and and see how much how many weeks that'll take me to get through everyone who wants to do that. But it may not be anyone. I know I don't know. But anyone who wants to do that is welcome to talk to me on a more personal basis that way. I've actually already talked to some people about that. I spent, you know, I've talked to Dave Beer. I've talked to Jeff Fox. I've talked to a few people um about their charts and charts they worked on in with both of the systems. So um I'm happy to do that with anybody and free of charge and so just call me up sometime or email me
about the conversation that I had with her because you know I studied dating for the last 10 years and before that tropical and you know to go back to the tropical positions and look at certain things particularly career-wise, it was just astonishing how much better the tropical places describe what's going on.
Yeah. I mean, like I said, I just lost all confidence in Sidural Zodiac. And in fact, I lost confidence in it a year ago, but I just kept testing and testing and testing because it's not this is not some simple thing where you just change that by one or two degrees. I mean, this is a huge shift. So, I really wanted to have felt like, okay, I researched it. to the very best of my ability before I open my big mouth, you know. Um I did leak it out to one or few people. And um I you know I also in some of the homework classes we did in the past year um in one assignment I give you a tropical chart and another one I give you a cidurial chart and you guys actually did your homework was better on the tropical chart. So I've done a lot of tests. I also um I had one person call me um for some trouble they were having an ast very competent astrologer, a very good astrologer actually. And I um I said, "Look, I want you to just I'm going to write this chart. I'm going to give you a chart and tell you where the planets are. I want you to tell me what you think about these two people." And this person was having a little bit of a headache in their marriage. And so I gave them the chart of her husband, Tropically. And I said, "Tell me something about this person." And she spelled out this person's personality perfectly. And I said, "Now tell me something about this person. She spelled it out perfectly and and I said I said you know who these people are. I said this is you and your husband and you like and it was like this is doesn't it make sense? How come your marriage is the way it is? So just be happy you know. So I've done a lot of little sleazy things like that to people. Um all the pragnes I've done the last two years have been tropical. So anyone called me with the pragna I did it tropically because of the fact that I just wasn't happy in timing with cidurial and getting details and I felt like praa which I haven't spent a great deal of time studying or researching but I've definitely felt like my pragna has got much better you know um I've found more lost things that I he lost or my dad lost or whoever lost u my timing has been better in fact a year and a half ago my brother bought a car calls me up tells me he just bought a car so I cast a chart for the moment because I was sort of worried about this and I I told my wife I didn't tell my brother cuz he was really happy about the car. I told my wife in a year and a half he's going to have to rebuild the head because he's going to get a head gasket leak. So a year and a half ago was last month. You know what he did for Christmas? He fix he replaced the head gasket on his car. So praa um tropical signs, you know. So I've done a lot of things um tropically. I've run tests by people without them knowing it because I wanted to see was I just going crazy or was there some validity. do this outside my own experience, you know, and there has been, like I said, everyone who's taken the time to test it, things have added up and some people have, you know, I won't say everyone, one person who's looked at it was like think both systems have merit and um I think one has to be right. I think astrology was a one world system. Zodiacal astrology got fractured by different cultures and cultures did different things. But the very fact that Different cultures have zodiacal astrology with the same names for the signs, the same symbolism, the same exaltations, the same debilitations, the same rulerships. It have they have to come from the same source. And if they come from the same source, it's either tropical or cidurial signs. They can't be both. And the reason astrologers get by with different s different zodiacs because their techniques simply aren't scientific. They're simply not scientific. They work 40% of the time. That's not scientific. You can make up a technique that works 40% of the time. Just out of the blue, anything. Say anything. It'll work four out of 10 times. You could make it work. So, so yeah, those of you who are interested, try it and see what you get. And um, you know, I don't know if I'll ever be able to feel happy with this zodiac again, though. I certainly can't these days, you know.
Go ahead.
Why do you suppose Can you hear me? Okay.
Yeah.
Why do you suppose that Something that's based in time would be more accurate in defining characteristics rather than something based in space. I mean,
okay. Well, no, we're doing You mean like this tropical zodiac based on time?
Yeah. Yeah, exactly. As opposed to the cider, which is more based on Earth, correct?
Well, it's really not true. What it is is that they're both based on Earth. The cidurial zodiac, which is the zodiac of the nshhatras, it's really not a zodiac. It's just a it's the stars. It's the stellar sphere. It's the relationship ship of the stars to the earth.
Okay? And the zodiac is the relationship of the sun to the earth which is our personal star. So really all we're doing in astrology is we're relating the stars to the earth. Astro means star.
By using the tropical you're you're ignoring the fact that there is a procession in a sense.
No we're we're basically relating the sun to the earth with tropical and with with tropical signs we're relating the sun to the earth. That's all we're doing. Okay? And every astrological motion has to do with time. The procession has to do with time. Um, you know, the movement of the earth revolving on its axis. The earth revolving through the nshhatras is a is a time. In fact, it's the most important time is the earth revolving on its axis. That's the time that Siri emphasizes as the force that brings events to pass. Nikhatra time. um which is and a nhatra time is one the rotation of the nikshhatras around the earth one time is a nikhatra day 360 nikhatra days is a nhatra year and that's the year I use for vinhatriasha and it worked better in my experiences so nikhatras are time too every astronomical feature has time Jupiter's motion is the year of Jupiter so you know everything is time based somehow so what we're doing with which is the cidurial sphere where we're basically relating the cidurial sphere to the earth. What we're doing with rashis well if we use cidurial rashies we're relating the cidurial sphere as sphere as a 12-fold division to the earth. But if we use ecliptic um tropical rashies we're using um when we if We're using tropical rashies. We're simply relating the the sun
the sun to the earth. And that's what rashies are because the ecliptic has nothing to do with the stars. The stars don't move on the ecliptic. Right? So to say that rashies should be based on the stars which have nothing in the remotest way to do with the ecliptic is simply illogical. Whereas making rashis dependent upon the sun's motion through the earth is logical because that's what the ecliptic is. If we want rashis to be cidurial, we can do it. But then we can't measure rashis on the ecliptic. Then we're going to have to measure the rashies on the equator equatorally like we are doing the nshhatra. That would be logical at least. We basically be taking a 12-fold division of the of the of the stellar sphere. But to take a 12-fold division of the stellar sphere on the ecliptic, which has nothing to do with the stars, is not logical. Yet, that's what we've in doing. So I think the tropical zodiac logically is much more sensible. It makes more sense based on the names of the rashies being names of earthly creatures instead of heavenly creatures. And the fact that parasher says that the rashis are the unconscious manifestations of Lord Vishnu. They're gross.
Seeing Scorpio in the sky doesn't have any relevance at all.
Sure. You see Scorpio in the sky. Scorpio is like 4550 degrees long. It doesn't fit into Scorpio. You know what I mean? It looks like a scorpion, but it doesn't fit into a 30° span of Scorpio. You know what I'm saying? It's just coincidence. Does Does Aries look like a ram? Does Taurus look like a bull? Does Gemini look like two people with a man with a club and a woman with a loot? Does Cancer look like a crab? Does Leo look like a lion? No, those don't look like those things. Scorpio happens to look like a scorpion all definitely does but Scorpio is like 50° long whereas Scorpio sign's only 30° long Virgo constellation is like 60° long you know so the the constellations the Aries Taurus Gemini Greek constellations which are modern constellations that were originated in 300 BC which means they're modern relevant to the nshhatras which are ancient ancient the Greek constellations don't even fit into the 30° span of space that they're that the signs are named after. So does is it logical to have constellations named after something that doesn't fit into the space that us astrologers use? It's not. And it's because the
it's because rashies are not meant to measure the stars. It's completely different different space.
They're just a 30° space section.
It's a 30° section of the ecliptic. and Scorpio.
Okay. So then how I know that we talked about all this, but how how did they get these particular symbol I mean this particular symbolism
of Aries, Taurus, Gemini?
Yeah.
Because it's the relationship of the Earth to the Sun. So let's look at um oh let's see. Let's look at when the sun is further south. When the sun is further south, we're in the signs of Saturn. And when the sun is further south, That's um when the world is less conscious supposedly as the sun moves more north the solar power gets more stockic and more powerful and more spiritualizing more exalting. So those you know the signs of Saturn are the beginning of that process because the two signs of Saturn are just when the mo the sun starts to move north and that's what Saturn signs do to us. They force us to evolve. They force us to grow. They force us to change our consciousness to grow out of our limiting painful patterns and our our negative existence. You know, we become we're in the most painful place and we're pushed out of it. And that's how we grow. You know, we grow because of um of pain. We're just sick of feeling this way. So, we decide to finally do something about it, right? And symbolically, we start to move north. So, you can see
wise, it makes sense.
What's that?
I understand. rulership wise. I understand that. So that makes sense.
Okay.
Actually, the actual like symbolism like the the lion and the
Oh, I see. Yeah. How did they derive that? That's a good question. Why is Capricorn a crocodile, you know?
Yeah.
And well, you think about it. Capricorn's a crocodile. And a crocodile is something that is hasn't evolved in thousands of years. It's its evolution has been fixed. Right.
Right.
It's kind of settled. But it's it's crocodiles are an amazing creature. They're like the the perfect thing. That's why they haven't evolved. There's been no need for them to evolve. They've been able to survive through everything. They're really crafty. You can't catch a crocodile twice the same in the same trap. You can't say that for any other animal. You know, they learned the first time. And you know, so they've they've been through a lot. They've evolved a lot to a point of not really evolving. And if you think of the sun, having moved at that point the sun has finished moving south meaning it's finished moving through all the difficulty
right
this you know the southern emotion of the sun is the hardships the difficulties the headaches the conflicts it's finished moving south when it hits Capricorn so finally now it's finally evolved to something that can stay the way it is more it has less need to change because it's been through all the hardship that's created something that's meant to survive So maybe that's why I haven't thought about all that that much, but I've never really thought about the symbolism relevant to the stars because it never added up why that star equals this when this star is aweeny,
right?
You know, it's aweeny was a schweeny to me. Um it never made sense to make Aries as a star formation have an effect. There's no deity attached to Aries whereas there is a deity attached to Ashweeni and Ashweeni nakshhatra has the qualities of that deity. So Um,
isn't the sun start moving up at that starting Jupiter?
No. No.
The No, the sun starts moving north at zero tropical Capricorn.
Oh, right.
Yeah. So, I think it's just they use these earthly creatures to define the quality of the solar rays impacting Earth at that time.
They just made it up without being in the star.
Yeah. It's a symbolism. It It defines the quality of that relationship and this is direct directly how he says it or wrote it. He said that the um there's 12 realms of power in the orbit of the earth around the sun. So these 12 rashies are these 12 realms of power. You know they all have a different power different quality and he says in their or in in the sun in the earth's orbit around the sun which is tropical. He didn't say in the earth moving through the stars or the heavens or the sun moving through the stars or the heavens. He said there's 12 realms of power in the earth's orbit around the sun.
So do you think it's an error that the Greeks took the stars and formed these these constellations?
Well, I think what happened is as the procession started getting closer to where aweeny started lining up with the vernal equinox, I think The Greeks were start struggling for an astronomy, you know, um, versus an astrology, you know, meaning observations of the stars, stellar, you know, observing the motions of the heavens for not predictive, not to use an astrology, but as a as a life science, the same way we might watch an omeo in the microscope. So, they were watching the stars, and they wanted to attribute names to these stars, and they lined up with the um with the tropics and relatively it was still several degrees off when Hipparus named Aries constellation and so on and they gave them these constellational names and then all the other constellations they gave names to different deities of Greek mythology you know and he basically just named them arbitrarily honestly I think and wrote their myths about them.
So do you know do you think it was for instance Aries right now I mean, do you not use the energy of that in any type of interpretation? Do you only use
No, no. Aries is Aries. You bet. You have to. Aries is red. Aries is movable. Aries is a ram,
right?
Aries is a quadruplet.
You have to use those qualities. And what I'm saying is with tropical signs, all those details of qualities worked out better. Um, you know, simply
say that the ram part is really not relevant in terms of
sure the ram part's relevant. It's a symbol of the quality qualities of that of the power emanating from that area of the ecliptic. But it's not but the quality is not based on some group of stars that the Greeks named Aries which those stars haven't already had more ancient names named after deities. Those qualities come from the relationship of the sun to the earth in that section which is
the fact that it's okay. So the fact that it's it's ruled by Mars, the fact that it's the fact that it's
Yeah. And you look at the quality of a ram. Ram's nature is to move up, you know, the climb. And when the sun moves Aries, that's when the sun starts dramatically moving north, going upwards and le that's when the sun leaves the southern hemisphere and moves to the northern hemisphere and it changes direction. And it's an interesting with tropical sign. Whenever the sun changes direction, we have a movable sign, a changeable sign. So the sun moves from the north southern hemisphere to the northern hemisphere at Aries
you know whereas cidurially why is Aries movable you know why is Aries movable there's no no reason astronomical reason for Aries to be movable
yeah anyone else have any questions
now we have the the greatest to maybe predict the position of any planet for any of the
Yes.
So if you compare this model and try to find out what the difference is.
Yes, the the calculations we have um the modern constellations are much much more accurate than the traditional calculations. Yes,
you know the star cataloges that we have in the in the astronomical books in India, the stars are only accurate within three degrees, three or four degrees. Hardly any of them are accurate even to within one degree. They're usually between one and three degrees off and that's both in latitude and longitude. The planets if we use the methods for calculating a planet um and we use those methods to these days weak you're usually two to three degrees off on the planet's position but some people in India and Tamil especially they're using um these old calculations and calculating charts still to this day and their planets are two to three degrees off and one planet can be two degrees advance and another planet can be two degrees backwards so it's not like they're all two degrees off one's this way one's this way they're all very different so The calculations we have from the teddantas that we had were very sloppy. However, the astronomical books we have are from the middle of the kaluga. So we really don't know how they were calculating planets. Um you know 5,000 years ago the serious dedu talks about making a machine where you basically make a globe of the earth surrounded by rings one ring for each nakshhatra surrounded by the planet surrounded by the rashies and everything. This whole globe with all the astronomical things in it. It tells you, it tells us to put Aries at the vernal equinox. It tells us to put equinoxial circles, solstal circles, every astronomical thing. And it says that this is how you make the machine. And then it said your guru will tell you the secret of how to automate this machine. So they had this way that they supposedly did something. They automated this machine so that actually ran and calculated the positions of the planets somehow. And the commentators on the series had done to say, of course, that's all garbage. There's no way they could have done that. But they supposedly had a technology of animating this construction to keep track of the planets. And there's also an ancient Greek thing they found of the 2,000 years old, 2,000 years old or something in a in a shipwreck that is some kind of astronomical calculator of the planet. So, they had machines back in those old days and we don't know how accurate those machines were. Um, you you know just like we use computers, they had their they had mechanical machines which the workings of this Greek machine that they found is profound. I mean, the scientists can't believe the sophistic sophistication of this machine and that you know if what we're to believe is that that man actually had higher age as 6,000 8,000 years ago we don't know what machines they really were capable of making we don't know how they really did it all so they might have had as accurate a calculations as we did but the text we do have from 100 to 800 AD their star positions are very sloppy um as compared to our calculations for planets and stars Okay.
Okay. But yeah, I have done that and I've tried like in Surya Sedanta, he gives the nikshhatra positions of the stars. You know, each nikshhatra is named after one particularly bright star that falls in that nikshhatra. And I've tried every constellation to try to get those stars to fit where the Sirius sedent. And even at different times, I've gone all the way back to 8,000 BC trying to calculate these stars to fall where the Sirius Adventist says to try to make them all fit where the serious dentist says they're supposed to be. And they won't. There's no way, no time we can make all those stars fit where they say. We can make one fit, but then the other ones don't fit. They simply were only accurate to within about three degrees of accuracy on their stars. And their planets were probably within a degree. Um, but if you use the methods from 1500 years ago, today they can be off by two or three degrees. if they don't apply corrections every couple hundred years. And the last time I think they applied corrections was about a thousand years ago. So the error if we do it that way now is quite large. So we're really at the first point in time of really of the 2,000 years where we have good calculations where we actually have computers machines to help us and we're actually we have jam sutras again and we have brihhat prashra again. So with all those four things together, there's a lot of research to be done to perfect astrology to bring it to a the next level of its existence. Any other questions or concerns or criticisms or ideas? Okay. So if anyone wants to talk to me about this further, just drop me a line. Um and I will be emailing you everyone the web address to download the new kala um the 2006 that has the equatorial nshhatras and give me your feedback on it and I'd like to hear what you guys come up with and how you find things to be working. Okay.
Are you going to email that today?
Yeah, I'll email that in a few minutes here within half an hour.
Okay.
All right. Take care everyone.
Thank you.
Okay. Byebye. 