Preface to the eBook Version of Vault of
the Heavens
I began working on Vault of the Heavens my first week studying
Vedic Astrology. I had been studying Western Astrology for a few
years and just purchased a copy of Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra. As I
read Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra I quickly realized that studying this
great book was not going to be like studying a western astrology
book - a quick read leading to knowing what I was doing was just not
going to work with this great text, so I began by writing down each
Sutra in the text and gave my thoughts on it. Over the years I revised
my thoughts and six years later published a large part of those
thoughts as my first book Vault of the Heavens. Vault of the Heavens was
instantly successful. It opened up many doors that helped me to be
able to support my new family at a time when I was studying 30
hours a week while also supporting my wife and first son by
consulting with clients. Three years later and I sold through the first
printing of Vault of the Heavens and decided not to reprint. Ever since
then students of astrology have regularly asked me for a copy, for a
reprint, for anything.
For many years I resisted reprinting Vault of the Heavens. Why did
I do this? It was my best selling book after all. There are two reasons.
The first is that I did not know Sanskrit while writing Vault of the
Heavens and so had to rely on the available translations, all of which
had some errors and bad ideas and thus there are a few things that
are incorrect in Vault of the Heavens (don't worry, I will tell you what
those things are in a moment). The main reason, however, that I did
not reprint Vault of the Heavens is that I wanted to write a multivolume set of books expanding upon everything in Vault of the
Heavens and going much beyond it. A Magnum Opus on Parashari
Astrology as portrayed in Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra.
I began that set of books with Graha Sutras, which expands the
first two chapters of Vault of the Heavens into a book equally as long as

Vault of the Heavens - now we are getting serious about the Grahas!
And that was the last book I wrote. Since then I have been busy
teaching audio and lately video courses all of which have extensive
manuals - sveral books worth of manuals. While I myself would
prefer to simply write books and forget about the talking as writing is
my favorite pastime, many students seem to prefer audio or video
courses, which, combined with the manuals give a much more
rounded approach to learning. One day all these manuals will be
written into their final drafts into my huge series of astrological texts,
but until that time, videos are audios is all I have time for.
My reason for releasing Vault of the Heavens now as an eBook is
that so many people have asked it of me. I regularly get emails and
phone calls of people asking if I have just one copy left as the only
place they can find it is at amazon.com for $250.00-999.00. I hate to
think of anyone being forced to pay such an astronomical amount for
my book (even if it is astronomical in nature), so here it is digitally
and cheap! And since it is going to be a while before I finish the
companion books to Graha Sutras, I hope this release of Vault of the
Heavens will satisfy the book lovers out there.
What is wrong in Vault of the Heavens?
1. First, in Graha Sutras you will find much more perfect translations
of the planetary chapters of Vault of the Heavens. There is only one
Sutra that comes to mind that is in Vault of the Heavens that all
translators have managed to totally botch and that is the chapter
on the complexions of the planets. This has all be straightened
out in Graha Sutras - which in my opinion is my best and most
important book. In fact, half the questions that people ask me
would be answered if they studied Graha Sutras. If you think you
understand the planets, read Graha Sutras to find out just how far
away the planets are and how little you know about them.

2. The colors of the Rasis given in Vault of the Heavens that I took
from the available translations are not correct. Please refer to my
Gems, Jyotish and Minerals audio course for correct information on
the colors.
3. I have taught the use of Lajjitaadi Avasthas much, much better in
my Lajjitaadi Avasthas video course than I have in Vault of the
Heavens.
4. The correct calculation of Planetary War is a problem that
prevails with modern Vedic Astrologers. In my latter writings and
courses I teach how to do this properly.
Other than these four points, I recommend Vault of the Heavens to
you with great fervor, in fact, with so much fervor that I wonder why
I did not release this as an eBook years ago. Come to think of it,
perhaps there is one other reason I did not reprint. It is written very
badly, lots of mistakes, typos, even some English words I made up it was my first book and it shows! In this second release of Vault of
the Heavens I am proud to say that I did not correct any of those
errors, you have the original words of the original version with all of
its idiosyncrasies. I have left all these errors and poor writings as they
are as an inspiration to other would be authors. It reminds me of
some of the multi volume novels I have read. In a few of my favorite
series the first novel is a great story, written very badly, the next novel
is written better, the next quite good, the tenth very well. Seeing this
made me feel that writing a book is possible for anyone who wants to
give the substance the due time it deserves, and thus I leave my first
writing as it is with all its errors so that you too can believe that you
can write a book if you have something worth telling.
Ernst Wilhelm
June 2012

Vault of the Heavens
~Treatise on Vedic Astrology~

by
H Ernst Wilhelm I

© Copyright, 2001
by
Ernst Wilhelm

First Edition, 2001

Library of Congress Control Number: 2001118600
ISBN 0-9709636-0-2

Käla Occult Publishers
www.vedic-astrology.net

To My
Dear Friend Gaetano,
Without whom
My early career as an astrologer
Would not have been possible.

Lord Ganesha
Patron Deity of Astrology

Contents
Preface……………….……………….……….…….…..…. xi
1. The Planets and Myth……………………….………….. 1
Weekdays Governed by the Planets, The Avatars, Presiding Deities

2. Description and Indications of the Planets…………… 23

Chief Aspect, Planetary Cabinet, Gunas, Caste, Sex, Color, Doshas,
Taste, Sight, Residence, Age, Maturation Age, Description of the
Planets, Benefics and Malefics, Body Tissues, Five Elements, Trees,
Person, Vedas, Time Periods, Period of Life, Seasons, Dhatu, Moola
and Jeeva, Senses, Subtances, Clothes, Directions, Gemstone, Letters,
Rasis, Exaltation and Debilitation, Planetary Types, Outer Planets

3. The Rasis……………………………..……………….. 53

Zodiac and Chakra Correspondence, Lords of the Rasis, Descriptive
Symbols of the Rasis, Qualities of the Rasis, Determining Important
Rasis, Rasi Table

4. The Lagna………………..……………………………. 65
Character Effects of the Lagnas

5. Planetary Relationships………………..….………….. 75

Natural Relationships, Rahu’s and Ketu’s Relationships, Temporary
Relationships, Compound Relationships, Relationships in Dasa
Interpretation

6. Dignities…………………..……...………………….… 81

Own Rasi, Exaltation, Moolatrikona, Debilitation, etc., Dignities
Classified, Rahu’s and Ketu’s Dignities, Cancellation of DebilitationNeechabhanga Raja Yogas, Effects of Exalted and Debilitated Planets

7. Deeptaadi-Avasthas………..……………………….…. 93
Planetary War, Retrograde Planets, Effects of Combust Planets

8. The Houses………………..…………………………. 107
Types of Houses: Kendras, Panaparas, Apoklimas, Trikonas,
Dusthanas, Upachayas, Artha, Kama, Dharma, Moksha Houses, The 12
Houses, Body Parts, Secondary Meanings, House Systems

9. House Lords………………..………………..…….…. 121

Nature of Planets due to House Lordship, Dispositions of the House
Lords, Planets as House Lords, House Lords for the 12 Lagnas,
Important Influences to a House Lord, The Lagna and its
Corresponding House

10. The Nakshatras………………...……………….…… 169

Importance of the Moon, Tara Bala, Planets in Nakshatras, Nakshatra
Tables

11. Conjunctions of Planets………..……………………. 189
Influence of Planetary Relationships, Multiple Planet Conjunctions

12. Planetary Aspects .………..…………………….…… 193

Calculating Aspectual Values, Influence of Planets Aspecting Planets,
Aspect Tables

13. Rasi Aspects……………..………………………….... 203
Aspect Chakra, Simple Yogas involving the Lagna,

14. Sambandha………………….……………………….. 207

Mutual Connections between Planets, Parivartana Yogas: Maha, Khala
and Dainya Yoga, Hemming in between Benefics or Malefics

15. Raja Yogas………….…………………………….….. 211
Raja Yogakarakas, Rahu and Ketu as Yogakarakas, Raja Yogas in the
Navamsa, Vipareet Raja Yogas: Harsha, Sarala, and Vimala Yogas

16. Yoga Karakas………………………………….…….. 215
Productive Effects of Planets on Mutual Angles from Each Other

17. Navamsa….……………………………………..…… 217
Table of Navamsas, Navamsa in Dasa Analysis, Vargottama

18. Dispositors………..………………….……..…...…… 219
Final Dispositor, Dispositors and Dasa Results, Rasi, Navamsa and
Nakshatra Dispositors, Dispositors in Judging the Horoscope

19. Shad Bala……….……………………………….…. 223
Shad Bala Components, Shad Bala in Dasa Analysis

20. Vimshottari Dasa…..……………………………..….. 229

Calculating Vimshottari Dasa, Maha Dasa, Antar Dasa, and Pratyantar
Dasa Lords, Samskaras- The Mental Tendencies, Nature of Dasa,
Rohini, etc., Transition from One Dasa to the Next, Results due to the
Natural Characteristics, Constitutional and Elemental Effects, Results
due to Specific Indications, Results due to House Lordship, Position of
AntarDasa Lord from Dasa Lord, 2/12 and 6/8 Positions, Dasa Effects
Due to Friendship and Enmity, Effects of Specific Aspects and
Conjunctions, Saturn/Rahu and Rahu/Saturn Periods, Venus/Rahu
and Rahu/Venus Periods, Jupiter/Venus and Venus/Jupiter Periods,
Saturn/Venus and Venus/Saturn Periods, Venus/Venus and
Saturn/Saturn Periods , Rahu/Ketu and Ketu/Rahu Periods

21. Subha, Asubha, and Misra Yogas….……………..….. 249
Qualifying the Effects of a Planet in a House, Yoga, etc.

22. House Lords in Houses………………………………. 253
Results of House Lords due to Subha or Asubha Yogas

23. Judging the Horoscope……………………………….. 257

Karakas, Predicting Quality, Delaying & Separating Factors, Fatal
Degrees, Influence of Houses and House Lords, Predicting Details, Use
of the Navamsa, Dual Use of the Navamsa and Rasi, Importance of the
Dasa Influence, Dispositors, Chandra Lagna, Other Houses as Lagnas

24. Lajjitaadi Avasthas………….………………………. 271
A Group of Avasthas that Significantly Affect the Houses

25. Shayanaadi Avasthas…..…………………………….. 277

A Group of Avasthas that individualize the Effects of the Planets,
Summary of Avasthas

26. Developmental Qualities of the Planets…….……….. 297
Affliction by Rahu, Saturn, Mars and Ketu, Influence of Benefics

27. Saturn…………….……….………………………….. 307

Attitudes and Compensations of Saturn in the Rasis, Saturn in the
Houses, Saturn’s influence on Planets, Rahu Gives the Results of
Saturn, Combust Moon

28. Rahu and Ketu………..………………….…..….…… 313

Rahu and Ketu; General Nature, Rahu and Ketu in the Rasis and
Houses, Lords of Rahu and Ketu, Aspects of Rahu and Ketu to their
Lords, Rahu and Ketu Joining and Aspecting other Planets

29. Tajika Aspects……………….………………………. 349

Deeptamsas- orbs of Influence, Timing the Effects of Tajika Aspects,
Summary of Aspects

30. The Outer Planets…………….……………..………. 353

Involutionary Urges of the Outer Planets, The Tri-Murthi and the
Outer Planets, Using the Outer Planets, Transits of the Outer Planets,
The Outer Planets and Rahu and Ketu

Conclusion…..….……………….…….………………..… 361
Index…………...….………..….……………...………..... 365
About he Author..……………………………………….. 370

Lists & Tables
Allocation of Body Parts to the Rasis……..……..………… 80
Aspect Tables & Diagrams……….…..……….…………. 198
Astronomical Data of the Planets…….…..………….…….. 22
Cancellation of Debilitation…………………………….…. 86
Combustion of Planets…………...…..…….……………… 99
Directions of the Planets…………………………………… 48
Exaltation and Debilitation………..….…………………... 49
Fatal Degrees………………………………………..…… 264
House Indications………………..………………………. 120
Karakas………………………………………….………. 258
Moolatrikonas of the Planets………...……….…………… 81
Nakshatra Tables…..………….………………………… 178
Nakshatra Wheel with Planetary Lords………………….. 168
Nama (Name) Nakshatra……………………………….. 188
Navamsa Table………………..……………………….… 217
Planetary Glyphs and Sanskrit Names…..……..……….… 52
Planetary Relationships……….………………………...… 75
Planets and Sanskrit Letters…………………………...….. 49
Rasi Glyphs and Sanskrit Names…………….…………… 64
Rasi Tables…….………….…….………………………… 62
Rasis and Chakras…...………...….………………….…… 53
Rasis and Planetary Lords…..…..………………………… 54
Shayanaadi Avasthas…………………………………….. 296
Star Chart of Rasis & Nakshatras.…..………………..…. 192
Subha/Asubha Yoga Table……………………………… 251
Tajika Orbs of Influence………...….……………………. 350
Tara Bala……………………………..………..………… 172
Vimshottari Dasa Lengths………………..…………… 230

Acknowledgments
My thanks to all those who helped with the proofing:
Marty Russell
Lisa Reina
Mynx
My Wife, Srishti;
Double thanks to her for also assisting with the artwork.

Thanks also to Paul Brinkley Rodgers for the loan of the
computer resources necessary for the layout of this book.
Special thanks are due Nick Hodgson of Astrogems for the
generous loan that made the first printing possible.

Rasis and Grahas

Surya, the Sun, surrounded by the Grahas (planets), and the Rasis.

Preface

xi

Preface
The Hindu Culture of India has its roots in the Vedas, the
sacred knowledge said to have originated from Brahma, the
Creator, even before the Earth was formed. Veda literally
means “true knowledge.” The Vedas consist particularly of
hymns to different aspects of God. Astrology is known as a
Vedanga, a limb of the Vedas, specifically as the Eyes of the
Vedas. As a limb of the Vedas, the purpose of astrology is to
support the revelation of truth. As the Eyes of the Vedas, this
ultimately means to change our consciousness in some
manner that allows us to see God in our daily lives.
For those of intellectual bent, the study of astrology may
serve the purpose of transforming the consciousness in such
a manner that upon looking at the world, the Truth is more
evident. The study of astrology, therefore, has much to offer.
There are five unique attributes of this text. First, it is a
reference work of important significations of planets, signs,
and nakshatras, or stars, not to be found elsewhere. Particular
mention must be made to full ten pages of nakshatra tables
containing more information on the nakshatras then any
other source available to date. Second, all of the fundamental
principles necessary for any study of astrology are explained
with such depth and clarity that the advanced astrologer is
sure to gain a new depth of knowledge, and the beginning
student will be able to avoid the seeming contradictions that
only a partial understanding will result in. Third, chapters
devoted to Saturn and the Nodes of the Moon reveal the
counseling potential of Vedic Astrology. Particular mention
must be made to the chapter on the Nodes of the Moon,
Rahu and Ketu, which provides a detailed understanding of
these shadowy and elusive planets. Fourth, clear and concise,
step-by-step instruction for applying all the fundamental
principles to judging the horoscope as well as to the planetary

xii

Vault of the Heavens

periods used for timing events. Fifth, chapters on the Outer
Planets, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto, and Tajika aspects,
which are similar to the aspects used by Western Astrologers,
assist the Western Astrologer in making the transition to
Vedic Astrology. These chapters provide a framework for
using the Outer Planets in the context of Vedic Astrology
without bringing in misconceptions that may reduce the
efficacy of Vedic Astrology. In short, every attempt has been
made to render the fundamental principles of astrology
clearly and concisely under one cover.
Those new to Vedic Astrology must be told that many of
the principles used by Western Astrologers have their
mention in some ancient text in India, and that there are
many parallels between the astrology in the East and the
astrology in the West. There is, however, one significant
difference, and that is that Vedic Astrologers have always
used the Sidereal Zodiac, which is based on the greater
galaxy, rather than the Tropical Zodiac used commonly by
Western Astrologers, which is based on the Sun and the
equinoxes. These days there is a difference of about twentyfour degrees between these two zodiacs, almost an entire
sign. Therefore, it will be necessary for you to procure
horoscopes calculated for the sidereal zodiac. With the
Internet as your resource these days, this is a simple manner.
Ernst Wilhelm
June 2001

The Planets and Myth

1

1
The Planets and Myth
According to Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra, the Supreme Spirit
incarnated as the planets to bestow upon the Jeevas, the living beings,
the results due to their karmas. The planets used in Vedic astrology
are the seven visible heavenly bodies and the two nodes of the Moon.
The visible heavenly bodies are the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury,
Jupiter, Venus and Saturn. They are normally listed in the classical
texts in the order of the weekday that they rule: the Sun ruling
Sunday, the Moon- Monday, Mars- Tuesday, Mercury- Wednesday,
Jupiter- Thursday, Venus- Friday and Saturn- Saturday.
The nodes of the Moon, though not actually planets, are given full
planetary status and are of great importance. The nodes are the
points where the Moon's orbit around the Earth intersects with the
orbit of the Earth’s movement around the Sun. This intersection
occurs at two points, one northern and one southern. The northern
point is known as Rahu and the southern point is known as Ketu.
Rahu and Ketu, therefore, occur at the junctions of two powerful
forces generated by the movement of the Earth around the Sun and
the Moon around the Earth. These are the points where eclipses may
occur. Considering this, it becomes apparent how important they are
in astrology. Another point to note is that Rahu and Ketu, being
invisible, and being the nodes of the Moon- the mind, symbolize the
unconscious aspects of the mind.
The planets are considered as deities and much mythology has
been written involving them. Knowing some of this mythology
becomes an integral part in understanding the planets. Following are
the Avatars that stemmed from each of the planets, as well as the
presiding deities of the planets:

2

Vault of the Heavens

Avatar
From the Sun the incarnation of Lord Rama, from the
Moon that of Bhagavan Krishna, from Mars that of
Narasimha, from Mercury that of Buddha, from Jupiter
that of Vamana, from Venus that of Parasurama, from
Saturn that of Kurma, from Rahu that of Varaha, and
from Ketu the incarnation of Matsya occurred.
LORD RAMA
Long ago during the Tetra Yuga there was an Asura (demon) king
by the name of Ravana who was displaying great selfishness and
arrogance, and who was fast breaking every conduct of dharma.
Ravana had won many boons due to the strict penance he had
performed. These boons made him so powerful that no one could
conquer his display of unrighteousness and therefore adharma
(unrighteousness) was becoming rampant in the world. Brahma and
the Devas went to the all-pervading Vishnu to request his assistance
in riding the world of Ravana, as none of them could do so. Vishnu
promised to incarnate in the Solar Dynasty and put an end to Ravana
and his unrighteousness.
Vishnu was born as Rama, who exemplified all of the ideals of
Dharma throughout the entirety of his life. Rama was of royal birth
and was chosen as the crown prince of Ayodhya. Through the
scheming of one of his father’s wives the throne was unjustly taken
from him and he was exiled to the forest for fourteen years. To
insure that his father’s good name would remain unblemished, Rama
willingly accepted the exile with even minded calmness and
detachment, even though his father had already died due to the grief
caused by Rama's exile. Rama's wife, Sita, and his brother, Lakshman,
would not part from Rama and followed him to the forest. Many
adventures befell Rama during his exile and not even once did he stir
from the strict path of Dharma.
After many years of living and wandering in the forest, news of
Sita’s beauty reached the ears of Ravana, who then abducted Sita,
hoping to make her his wife. Rama was heartbroken and made every

The Planets and Myth

3

effort to find Sita and rescue her from Ravana. After much time and
effort, Rama destroys Ravana, and Sita is returned to him. At that
point the purpose of Rama's incarnation had been fulfilled; he had
destroyed Ravana and exemplified Dharma to such a degree that
mortal man weeps at the thought of the sacrifices Rama had made to
reestablish Dharma in the world of man. On hearing the stories of
Rama, man to this day becomes inspired to follow in his footsteps.
The trials of Dharma are hard and Rama, after conquering
Ravana, still had one more ideal to establish. After returning to his
native-city and becoming crowned, Rama heard that one of his
subjects spoke ill of his wife. His subject declared that once a woman
resides under the care of another man she should not be allowed to
return to her husband, though Rama might accept her because he
was infatuated with her, he would never accept her.
That Sita was taken against her will, that she remained outside
Ravana’s palace, only eating roots and fruits so as to eat what her
husband Rama was eating in the forest while she waited for him to
rescue her, was not considered by this critic. Rama, feeling that as
king his highest Dharma was to please his subjects abandoned Sita to
the ashram of Rishi Valmiki. Sita was with child, after giving birth to
Rama's twin sons she died. At hearing of Sita's death Rama was sunk
in sorrow, but he remembered that a king has no right to have
feelings of his own so he concentrated on ruling the earth until his
death.
For a man to live a life of such strict adherence to Dharma he
must be conscious of the true Self that resides in him. Only then can
he be separated and detached enough to do his duty. This Self is
symbolized by the Sun and exemplified for all time by Lord Rama.
BHAGAVAN KRISHNA
Krishna is the beloved Avatar of the Hindus. The stories of
Krishna are many and his devotees never tire of hearing them.
Krishna was born of two saintly parents while imprisoned by the evil
King Kamsa, Krishna's uncle. Kamsa had imprisoned Krishna's
parents because a voice from the sky had told him that their eighth

4

Vault of the Heavens

child would be the death of him. Kamsa killed Krishna's six younger
siblings as soon as they were born, but the seventh was transformed
to the womb of Rohini, a cowherd of Gokula. This seventh was
Balarama; an incarnation of Adishesha- the 1000 headed serpent,
Krishna's lifelong companion.
When Krishna was born the doors to his parent’s prison magically
opened. His father carried him away to Gokula, and exchanged
Krishna for the newborn daughter of Yashoda, who lay sleeping.
When Kamsa heard of the eighth child being born, he rushed to
kill it. When he raised the child, who was actually Yashoda’s child, up
in order to smash and kill it, the child slipped from his fingers into
the air, and before magically disappearing, told Kamsa that the eighth
child was hidden safely away.
Krishna spent his early life in sweet contentment among the
cowherds. Kamsa sent many Asuras to kill him, but Krishna, though
just a small child, vanquished them all. Krishna was a delight to all,
and entertained them with the music of his flute and his constant
pranks.
At the age of fifteen Krishna left the cowherds to kill the evil
Kamsa and release his parents. Krishna became known as a hero due
to his amazing feats while destroying many Asuras. The people,
therefore, always came to Krishna for his aid, succor and comfort.
Krishna is best know for his role as friend, advisor and comforter
to Arjuna and the Pandus during the great Kurukshetra war between
the Pandus and Kurus, depicted in the Mahabharata and Bhagavad
Gita. During this war, virtually all those who were of an evil and
arrogant nature were destroyed, purifying the world Krishna grew up
in a contented atmosphere among the cowherds; it is the Moon that
indicates the early environment essential for emotional well-being.
The Moon also rules cows as well as dairy and butter, Krishna’s
favorite food.
Krishna spoke always of the importance of Bakti (devotion),
keeping God always in mind. He loved his Baktis (devotees) more
than all else, even more than Brahma and all the other deities. It is

The Planets and Myth

5

when the mind, the Moon, is kept centered in the heart that bakti is
cultivated.
Among Avatars, it is Krishna whose many activities are
questionable, but as his mind was always one with God, nothing he
did could ever be construed as degrading to his spirit. The Moon is
the mind; where the mind is, that is what is important.
NARASIMHA
Very long ago there was an Asura by the name of Hiranyakashipu.
He had won many boons and had become very powerful. He
conquered the three worlds, forcing the Devas (demigods) to become
his vassals. The Devas appealed to the Supreme Lord, who told them
that Hiranyakashipu would soon have a saintly son and that a time
when Hiranyakashipu was mistreating his son, He, the Lord, would
come and destroy him.
Hiranyakashipu's youngest son, Prahlada, expressed all of the
qualities of a saint. He was truthful, disciplined and loved all living
beings. He had his senses under control and his conduct was
faultless. Whenever his father asked him what he had learned,
Prahlada spoke of the Lord. Needless to say his father was not
pleased at this. He commanded Prahlada's instructors to teach
Prahlada worldly ways and to make sure that he saw no devotees of
the Lord.
Prahlada's instructors asked him who had instilled him with such
thoughts. Prahlada answered that like iron attracted to a magnet his
mind was always pulled towards the Lord. With the threat of
punishment they taught him their ways and he acted as though he
was learning, but his mind was always with the Lord. They then
brought him to his father who was interested in his “progress”. Again
Prahlada spoke of the Lord. His father was enraged and commanded
that he be tortured. Prahlada was undaunted, therefore
Hiranyakashipu ordered that Prahlada be killed. Though many
methods were tried the Asuras were unable to kill this child of five.
Prahlada's instructors finally told the king that since they were unable

6

Vault of the Heavens

to kill the boy, in time he might reform, and so Prahlada was taken
back to his studies.
There then came a time when the instructors were away and
Prahlada began converting the other students. When the instructors
returned they were furious at this, especially since the other students
would no longer heed them in their lessons. The instructors rushed
to Hiranyakashipu who became enraged and decided that he would
kill his son with his own hands.
Hiranyakashipu then sent for Prahlada who came and greeted him
respectfully. Hiranyakashipu chastised Prahlada, who remained
undaunted, speaking only of the Lord to his father in a respectful
manner. Prahlada told his father that he could benefit from the Lord
who was greater than even him. His father asked him where this
“Lord” was who was greater than he was. Prahlada replied that He
was everywhere. His father asked him if He was in a pillar which he
pointed to. Prahlada said that He was. Hiranyakashipu then told
Prahlada that he was going to kill him, now, so if indeed the Lord
was in the pillar, He should come out and rescue Prahlada from
death.
Hiranyakashipu then hit the pillar with his great fist. There was a
terrible noise and the pillar split. Out of it came the Lord in a terrible
form. He glowed like molten gold. His head and face were that of a
lion, his chest also. His lower half was that of a man. Everyone was
afraid except for Hiranyakashipu. He thought what a strange beast
this is; it is neither man nor animal. He then remembered the time
when he had asked Brahma for a boon of immortality. Brahma had
been unable to do so, as he was not immortal himself. However
Brahma granted him that he would not be killed by one of His
creations, he would not be killed by man or animal, during day or
night, inside or outside, on the earth or in the sky. Brahma did
definitely not create this that came out of the pillar; could this be his
death?
Hiranyakashipu then hit the Lord in this beastly form with his
mace. They fought, until finally the Lord lifted him and carried him
to the threshold of the hall; it was neither inside nor outside. The sky

The Planets and Myth

7

was deepening into darkness; it was neither day nor night. The Lord
placed him in his lap, neither the earth nor the sky. Hiranyakashipu
was still unafraid. He looked at Prahlada as if to say that perhaps he
was right, that there was someone more powerful than he. The lord
then ripped out his entrails, killing him.
The Lord then went and sat on the throne. He was so angry that
no one dared approach him, the Earth was trembling, and the
heavens were scorching from the heat of the Lord. The Devas went
to get Mother Lakshmi, the Lords consort. Even She dared not
approach Him; She had never seen him so angry before. Finally
Prahlada went to the Lord. The Lord raised him up and His anger
vanished.
Narasimha's righteous anger, providing protection to God's
devotees, is the fiery energy of Mars’ utilized at its best.
BUDDHA
Buddha means ''the awakened one”. As a name, Buddha refers to
the Buddha known as Guatama Siddhartha, the founder of
Buddhism.
Siddhartha was born as a prince in the kingdom of Sakyas, on the
border of present-day Nepal and India. Learned Brahmins who read
his palms and bodily features declared that he would become either a
world monarch, if he remained at home, or a Buddha, if he left
home. But there was one Brahmin who said he would definitely
become a Buddha.
As a result of this, Siddhartha's father was always concerned that
Siddhartha might desire to leave home and become an ascetic. He
therefore always did his best to influence Siddhartha in favor of the
worldly life, keeping him happy and contented with every comfort
and luxury.
When Siddhartha was 29 years of age his life took a sudden turn.
When he was out driving with his charioteer he saw a decrepit, old
man. Siddhartha asked his charioteer what had happened to the man.
The charioteer explained that the man was old, that all men became
old. This greatly perturbed Siddhartha. Another day he saw a sick

8

Vault of the Heavens

man that had fallen in his own excrement. His charioteer, seeing that
Siddhartha was perplexed, explained that the man was sick, that all
men succumb to sickness. On another occasion Siddhartha saw a
dead body. Again his charioteer explained that the man was dead,
that all men must die. Next Siddhartha saw a man with a shaven head
wearing yellow robes. He was impressed with the calm demeanor and
serenity of the man. That day Siddhartha decided to become a
wandering ascetic. During the night he quietly slipped out of the
palace, leaving his wife and newborn son.
Siddhartha searched for truth. There were two sages who became
his teachers, through their teachings he reached very high spiritual
states. This was not enough for Siddhartha who continued his quest
for Truth. After almost dying from practicing severe bodily austerities
for six years in a woodland grove along with five other ascetics,
Siddhartha realized that such mortification could not bring him to
what he wanted. He changed his ways and began eating and taking
care of himself in a balanced manner. His five companions, on seeing
this, lost faith in him and left in disgust.
From this point forward Siddhartha followed his own path. Soon
after he attained enlightenment at the foot of a bodhi tree after
determining that he would not rise from the foot of the tree before
attaining enlightenment. After several tests he obtained his goal and
became the Buddha.
Buddha then began attracting disciples. His first disciples were the
five ascetics who had earlier abandoned him. He spoke of a balanced
“middle path” avoiding both self-indulgence and self-mortification.
This became known as the Noble Eight-fold Path. This path
consisted of right view, right thought, right speech, right action, right
living, right endeavor, right mindfulness, and right concentration.
Buddha's teachings rapidly spread, through himself and his many
enlightened disciples.
Buddha, upon seeing the death and suffering inherent in the
world and the peacefulness of an ascetic, made the choice between
worldly life and the spiritual life. In the same manner, Mercury, upon

The Planets and Myth

9

seeing his options, has the capacity to make the choices that result in
greatest security.
Siddhartha went from royal luxuries to severe austerities, but only
when he became balanced in his approach did he receive
enlightenment. It is Mercury, a neuter planet, which gives a practical
balance between two extremes.
The Noble Eight-fold Path is a path of choosing, always, to do
the right thing; it is a path of discrimination. It is Mercury who
provides this type of discrimination.
VAMANA
Long ago there was a powerful Asura by the name of Bali. He
grew to such strength that he chased Indra, the king of the Devas,
from the heavens. He then ruled the heavens and the world from
what had been Indra's city. Bali's fame spread all over the world.
Though an Asura, he was famous, not only for his might, but also
especially for his goodness and generosity.
The mother of Indra was unhappy over the vanquishing of her
son by Bali. She performed a mantra and the Supreme Lord came to
her and told her not to worry; He would be born as her son to
provide help to the Devas.
A son was born to her who is known as Vamana. Vamana, as a
boy, approached Bali during a spiritual rite that he was performing.
Such was Vamana’s brilliance that it appeared as if a bright light was
coming over the horizon towards Bali and the other onlookers.
When Bali saw that he who came was such a glorious Brahmin boy
he honored him and fell at his feet. “Welcome,” said Bali, “by your
coming I have been blessed. Tell me what I can do for you?”
Vamana answered him; “I want from you three paces of ground
measured by my stride.”
Bali was taken back, “You do not know what is good for you,
boy. You are just a child. Instead of asking me for islands you ask me
for three paces of ground measured by your tiny feet. Please, ask
again, and ask for enough land to keep you comfortable for all your
life.”

10

Vault of the Heavens

Vamana said, “If a man has not conquered desire all things in the
world will not be enough to satisfy him. One who is not satisfied
with three paces of ground will not be satisfied with the seven
continents and all their wealth. I therefore ask you only for three
paces of ground.”
Bali was prepared to grant Vamana's request. At this time,
however, Sukra (Venus), Bali's Guru stepped in and said, “Do not
give. He is deceiving you in order to help the Devas. He is the
Supreme Lord and with one pace of his foot He will cover the world,
with another He will cover the heavens and the third step He will
take on your head. You do not have to keep your promise of a gift to
him, for he is deceiving you and intends to take all that you have.”
Bali listened to his Guru and said, “I believe what you say, I do
not have to honor my promise as all my possessions and security are
at stake, but I do not fear loosing all that I have. I only fear the
infamy of speaking an untruth.”
Sukra was angry with Bali for this and cursed him to fall from
grace and loose all his wealth and success. Bali was not perturbed by
his Guru’s curse and granted Vamana's request.
Vamana then grew to huge proportions and took the form of the
Lord. With one step he covered the world, and with another the
heavens. He then resumed the form of Vamana. Bali was then tied
up, but he smiled, for he knew why the Lord had done this to him, to
rid him of the two sins, “I” and “Mine”. By taking away all that he
had, the Lord rid him of the sin “Mine”. The Lord now wanted to
show the world that only by surrender could one rid oneself of the
sin “I”.
Vamana looked at Bali, “You promised me three paces of ground.
I have taken only two and there is nothing left. Tell me, where should
I place my third step? You have not kept your word.”
Bali was not frightened, “I do not consider my words to be lies,
there is still a place for your third pace. Please place your foot on my
head.”

The Planets and Myth

11

Brahma then came to Vamana and said, “Please release Bali, he
has given you all he has and has surrendered himself to you. He
should be rewarded.”
The Lord then said, “When I want to destroy a man I grant him
all the wealth and power in the world. He then gets involved in them
and forgets his true nature. When I want to save a man from this
delusion I take away his all. Becoming rid of all his faults he will
become Mine. Bali has never swerved from the path of truth. Blessed
by me he will become the Indra during the Savarni Manvantar
(another cycle of creation). Until then he will go to Sutala (a heavenly
realm) where I will always be with him.”
Vamana took everything from Bali, but after Bali surrendered to
Him, He blessed him to be the next Indra. In the same manner
Jupiter will take away in order to allow for greater blessings to follow.
Bali had never swerved from truth and when he was ready to
grow, Vamana, in taking, freed Bali from his attachments so that he
could grow. In the same manner Jupiter, when we are ready to grow,
frees us from those things that are preventing our growth.
Vamana graced Bali, a mere Asura, to become the next Indra, the
next king of the Devas. In the same manner, Jupiter turns all that is
gross into the most perfected.
PARASURAMA
Parasurama was the son of Jamadagni. Due to some misbehavior
of his grandmother, Parasurama, though born in a Brahmin (priest
caste) family, had the qualities of a Kshatriya (warrior caste). A time
came when Kartavirya, a powerful and arrogant king, came to the
ashram of Jamadagni. So impressed was he of Jamadagni's divine cow
of plenty that he stole her. When Parasurama found this out, he
pursued Kartavirya and killed him and his entire army singlehandedly, returning the cow to his father.
His father was disappointed in him and scolded him for his
impatience and for the sin of killing a king. He requested Parasurama
to go on a one-year pilgrimage to the sacred rivers in order to purify
himself of the sin.

12

Vault of the Heavens

A year passed and Parasurama returned home. Shortly thereafter,
his mother, while fetching water on the banks of the river, saw a
demigod playing in the water and thought how handsome he was.
When she returned, Jamadagni saw with his mind's eye the thought
she had. The thought that a man, other than her husband, was
handsome was a sin. Jamadagni called his sons and commanded they
kill her. They were hesitant to kill their mother at their father’s angry
command. Jamadagni then called Parasurama, his youngest son, and
commanded that he should kill his mother and brothers. Without
hesitation, Parasurama did so. Jamadagni was pleased with him and
told Parasurama to ask for any boon. Parasurama asked that his
mother and brothers be returned to life, not remembering what had
happened. Jamadagni was happy to provide this boon and it was
done.
In the meantime Kartaviraya's sons were nursing their hatred
against Parasurama for killing their father. During a time when
Parasurama was out hunting, they came to his father's ashram to kill
his father. When Parasurama heard the cries of his mother and saw
his dead father he left everything in the hands of his brothers,
grabbed his huge ax and ran from the ashram. At that moment he
had decided to kill all Kshatriyas.
Parasurama killed all the 10,000 sons of Kartavirya, but this did
nothing to appease his anger. His pride rampant, he would not brook
any insult, not resting until he had punished the offender. With his
pride as an excuse he went around the world twenty-one times killing
Kshatriyas. He performed sacrificial rites to purify himself of the sins
of killing so many kings. It is said that his purpose was to rid the
world of evil Kshatriyas. A Brahmin by birth, he punished Kshatriyas
that disrespected Brahmins.
Parasurama was very loyal and devoted to his father. Venus also
exhibits such traits of loyalty and devotion, which comes from
understanding where the greatest good lies.
Parasurama instigated many a fight due to his pride, the pride that
is a characteristic of Venus, the most proud amongst the planets.

The Planets and Myth

13

Parasurama became intoxicated with killing Kshatriyas. In the
same manner Venus becomes intoxicated with passion for what he
loves to do.
Venus is considered one of the benefics, for an avatar, with such a
bloody role as Parasurama had, to be related to the benefic Venus
appears preposterous at first. A very important astrological text,
Upadesa Sutras, states that Venus has the ability to abort siblings and
cause the loss of children, so there is much more to Venus then
meets the eye.
KURMA
There was war in the heavens between the Devas and the Asuras.
The Devas could not stand the fierceness of the Asuras, and many of
them were dying. Indra and the others came to Brahma for help. He
advised that they pray to the Supreme Lord. Brahma and the Devas
then prayed to the Lord and asked him to pity the Devas.
The Lord appeared and counseled them to make peace with the
Asuras in order to buy them time. He then suggested that they obtain
Amrita, the nectar of immortality. He told them that to obtain the
Amrita they must churn the ocean with the mountain, Mandara, and
that they would need the help of the Asuras to do so. He then told
them that he would also assist and that he would make sure that the
Asuras got nothing of the Amrita. He then cautioned that many
things would come from the churning of the ocean and that they
were not to oppose the Asuras in anything that the Asuras desired;
their only aim was to be the Amrita.
The Devas then made peace with the Asuras who agreed to help
them for their fair share of the Amrita. First they began to carry the
mountain, Mandara, to the ocean, but it was to heavy and they
dropped it crushing many Devas and Asuras. The Supreme Lord
then appeared, lifted the mountain and carried it to the ocean. The
serpent, Vasuki, was then tied to the mountain. The Lord and the
Devas went to the head of the serpent and grasped it in their hands.
The Asuras were angry with this and complained that they would not
hold onto the tail of the serpent as it was beneath their dignity. So the

14

Vault of the Heavens

Lord allowed the Asuras to hold onto the head. They then began to
churn the ocean, but the mountain was very heavy and sank into the
ocean. The Lord knew that this happened because they had failed to
pay reverence to Lord Ganesha. The Lord then went under the water
and took the form of a huge tortoise, Kurma, and lifted the mountain
on his back. Only very few knew why the mountain had sank and
how it had come up again. The churning began and the serpent being
pulled upon, could not take it. Fire and poisonous smoke came out
of his mouth, and the Asuras suffered greatly from it.
The difficult churning continued and many things of great value
and beauty rose up from the ocean. The Devas took only that which
the Asuras did not want until at last Amrita rose to the surface in a
vessel of gold carried by a divine looking being. The Asuras quickly
took the Amrita, ran away, and began fighting amongst themselves
over who should have the first taste. The Devas appealed to the
Lord. The Lord told them not to worry, for had not he already
promised them that they would receive the Amrita.
Among the Asuras then came a woman, Mohini, of such beauty
that the Asuras stopped quarreling. The Asuras handed the Amrita to
her and asked for her to decide who should taste the Amrita first. She
said that she would do so if they promised to accept her actions,
which the Asuras readily agreed to.
This woman was actually the Lord who knew it was not right to
give the Amrita to the Asuras because they were cruel by nature. He
then, in the guise of the woman, seated the Devas and the Asuras in
separate groups. Her smiles and loving glances were all for the
Asuras, but all the while she was giving the Amrita to the Devas. The
spell she had cast on the Asuras prevented them from realizing that
the Amrita was all being given to the Devas. They were so enamored
by the women's beauty that they thought how terrible that the Devas
could only think of the Amrita and had no appreciation of beauty.
They thought that it was okay for the Devas to have their share first
and that surely the woman would not cheat them.
One Asura, Svarbhanu, however was not fooled, so taking the
appearance of a Deva he sat between the Sun and the Moon. He

The Planets and Myth

15

partook of the Amrita. The Sun and Moon then recognized him and
made signs to the Lord who cut off Svarbhanu's head with his
chakra. Svarbhanu, though, was already immortal from drinking the
Amrita. Brahma had previously granted a boon to this demon to
make him a planet, therefore the Lord allowed him to drink the
Amrita. Svarbhanu's head became Rahu and his body became Ketu.
Rahu and Ketu forever after have had bitter enmity with the Sun and
the Moon which they “swallow” during an eclipse.
When the Lord saw that all the Devas had taken Amrita he
resumed His form. Though the Asuras had worked as hard as the
Devas they were not rewarded with any Amrita.
Kurma made it possible to perform the difficult churning of the
ocean by raising the mountain after it had sunk into the ocean and
holding it on His back during the churning. It is Saturn who provides
the capacity to persevere through difficult tasks. It is also Saturn who
is slow, persevering, and lasting, just like a turtle.
The Asuras churned the ocean with attachment and desire for the
objects that arose from the ocean. The Devas only desired the
Amrita, and after the Asuras ran off with the Amrita they had to
surrender to God and believe that He would return it to them. When
Saturn is attached to the results he tends to create obstacles, become
inert due to fear, or actually push away what he desires, both resulting
in the loss of what is desired. When Saturn works with detachment
and surrender he finds that his efforts bring happiness.
VARAHA
In the beginning of the creation of this Kalpa (cycle of time),
Brahma commanded his son to begin creating. “But please tell me
where my creations are to live. The earth has been submerged during
the great deluge,” his son replied. “She is now in the netherlands. If
you can retrieve her I will be able to do as you wish.”
Brahma thought to himself, “Lord, you have commanded me to
create, so it is up to you to help me solve this problem.” Brahma then
thought of the Supreme Lord and became absorbed in meditation.
All of a sudden a tiny boar jumped out of his nostril and began to

16

Vault of the Heavens

grow and grow until it had assumed immense proportions. All those
who were watching realized that the Supreme Lord had donned the
form of a boar in order to raise the earth from below.
The Supreme Lord then, in the form of the boar, plunged into the
waters, swimming to the bottom He found the Earth. Raising the
Earth on his tusks the boar began to rise up. A demon attacked him
on is way up but was killed after a ferocious battle. Varaha then
emerged from the water with the Earth, which he placed on the dents
formed by his hoofs. Brahma and the others praised him and his
glory, “We salute you and your wife, Mother Earth.” Varaha, (the
Boar) after listening to their words, vanished from their sight, but not
before giving the essence of yagyas; rites for manifesting desires,
making changes, and creating karmic balance.
Varaha, the avatar associated with Rahu, was necessary in order to
create life on Earth, the physical plane, after the causal and astral
planes had been created. Rahu indicates many of the deeper lessons
and desires, and the need to create karmic balance in underdeveloped
areas, which make it necessary for us to reincarnate on the physical
plane. This is also symbolized by the Earth’s salutation as Varaha's
wife.
When Varaha was raising the Earth, an Asura attacked him. Many
“Asuras” of phobias, hallucinations, pretensions, and compulsions
similarly attack the areas that Rahu influences.
MATSYA
At the end of the previous Kalpa, Brahma, the Creator, went to
sleep and the world became submerged under the waters. When
Brahma was sleeping an Asura stole the Vedas from him and
disappeared under the waters.
Previous to that a saintly king by name Satyavrata ruled the world.
One day Satyavrata was performing his ablutions on the banks of the
river Kritamala. When he took up the water in his cupped palm he
found a tiny fish in his hands. He promptly dropped the fish back in
the water. The fish spoke and said, “O king, have pity on me, I am so
small and afraid of the big fish which threaten to eat me up. Please

The Planets and Myth

17

take me away and protect me.” The king was touched by the fish and
took it home.
The next morning the fish said, “There is not enough space inside
the vessel I am in, please place me in a wider pot.” Satyavrata placed
it in a wider pot filled with water but within an hour the fish had
outgrown the new pot. Satyavrata then placed it in a pond and the
same thing happened. He kept placing the fish in bigger and bigger
areas filled with water but the fish kept growing and complaining that
it did not have enough space. Finally Satyavrata took it to the ocean
and dropped it there.
The fish said, “The Ocean is full of sharks and whales which will
surely eat me up. Why did you bring me here.”
Satyavrata smiled and said, “You are no ordinary fish. I know who
you are. You are the Supreme Lord who has donned this form for
some good purpose.”
The Lord, in the form of the fish, then said, “You are right. Seven
days from today the three worlds will be submerged under the waters.
The great deluge is coming. When the world goes completely under
you will see a boat. Take your place in the boat with the Seven Rishis.
I will be in the waters. When you see me tie the boat to one of my
horns. I will play on the waters for the duration of Brahma's night
(the period during which Brahma is sleeping and creation is
submerged), and you will also be with me.”
All happened as was said. The Lord in the form of the fish also
taught Self-realization to Satyavrata. During this time he also fought
the Asura who had stolen the Vedas, returning the Vedas to Brahma
at the end of the great deluge.
Matsya was a fish who was discontented with all smaller vessels
except for the ocean of Spirit. Similarly Ketu is never contented with
anything of the world and only finds contentment in Spirit.
Matsya taught the knowledge of Self-realization to Satyavrata and
returned the wisdom of the Vedas; Ketu provides the Jnana
(knowledge) of Self-realization.

18

Vault of the Heavens

Matsya liberated Satyavrata from the fears caused by the ending of
creation; Ketu, in the end, provides us with spiritual liberation. Ketu
is therefore known as the producer of Jnana and Moksha (liberation).
Presiding Deity
The Sun has Agni as his presiding deity. The Moon has
Varuna. Mars has Kartikeya. Mercury has Vishnu.
Jupiter has Indra. Venus has Lakshmi as well as Sachi
Devi. Saturn has Brahma as well as Yama. Rahu has
Adishesha. Ketu has Brahman.
AGNI
Agni is the god of fire. Like fire is hidden in wood, Agni
represents the spirit hidden in matter; the conscious, but not selfconscious, energy or life force that is contained within and unites all
things. Agni is also the “conveyor of the gods,” as it burns the
sacrificial ghee, etc, it brings the sacrifice to the gods. Agni, as the
presiding deity of the Sun causes the Sun to burn up things in life
that are sacrificed for the purpose of self-development.
VARUNA
Varuna is the all encompassing god of the ocean, the ocean of
cosmic consciousness. He is the lord of all creative forces arising out
of the ocean of cosmic consciousness. In the Vedas, Varuna is
considered as the most excellent and preeminent of all deities, as the
primal maker and upholder of the universe. Varuna as the presiding
deity of the Moon reflects the importance of our mental attitude in
creating our reality.
KARTIKEYA
Kartikeya, the god of war and power, is the second son of Lord
Shiva. He is the supreme warrior-general among the gods, who
commands the armies of the gods in their battle with the demons and
leads them to victory. Kartikeya represents the perceptive power of
the pure and innocent mind that has the discrimination to control the

The Planets and Myth

19

passions and lend them a spiritual focus. He does this by freeing the
mind from its concepts and ideas, these being what we fight for,
believing that things must be a certain way in order for us to be
happy and secure. Kartikeya is also known as Subramanya or Skanda
VISHNU
Vishnu is known as the preserver and the protector. When the
universe returns to an unmanifested state during the end of each
cycle of creation, even spirit in creation shows its impermanence and
is dissolved. It is Vishnu who preserves the worlds and non-liberated
beings in an unmanifested state until the next cycle of manifestation
begins. Vishnu sleeps during the long night of cosmic dissolution but
is protected from dissolution. Vishnu is the only manifestation of the
Absolute that does not suffer dissolution. He is therefore considered
as chief of all of the intelligent manifestations of the Absolute.
Vishnu is the immanent cosmic intelligence that provides the
memory of all that has been created and done in order to maintain
the order and rhythm of the universe, cycle by cycle. It is said that
Vishnu protects those that are dear to Him by endowing them with
intelligence and discrimination.
INDRA
Indra is the king of the gods and represents divinity. Indra is also
known as the all-conquering. The word Indra implies “one who is a
conqueror of the indriyas- the senses”. Many stories of Indra are
related wherein he becomes proud of his status. In his pride, he even
tested Krishna. Indra, though a god, is still part of manifested
creation and therefore capable of succumbing to pride.
SACHI DEVI
Sachi Devi is the consort of Indra and symbolizes the feminine,
passive aspect of divinity. Sachi Devi is, as the name implies, instilled
with power. The power to maintain divinity while making use of the
senses. The masculine Indra conquers the senses, while the feminine
Sachi, enjoys but is untouched by the senses.

20

Vault of the Heavens

LAKSHMI
Lakshmi is the consort of Vishnu, the goddess of prosperity.
Though having the capacity to endow with prosperity and all
pleasures, she herself clings to the chest of Lord Vishnu.
BRAHMA
Brahma is the creative aspect of Spirit. For creation to manifest,
the Absolute must hide behind a veil in order to give the idea of
creation being separate from Himself. This veil is termed Maya and is
created by each individual's Avidya, ignorance of his soul nature. It is
Saturn who is responsible for this Avidya. Saturn creates this
ignorance through his lordship of the nerves. It is through the
consciousness descending through the nerves that we perceive things
as soft, solid, bright, dark, mother, father, etc, in other words, not as
God.
YAMA
Yama is the god of death who leads the disembodied souls into
one of the darker or brighter regions of the astral world, according to
each individual’s merit. The word yama means “control” and
specifically self-control. Among all forms of self-control the control
of the life force is paramount. Through Yama, there is enforced
control of life as it is withdrawn from the body at death.
ADISHESHA
Adishesha is the great thousand-headed serpent that couches and
canopies the sleeping Vishnu during the dissolution between cycles
of creation. Shesha means “that which remains”, and refers to the
preserved potentialities of creation that, in a suspended state, await
expression in the next cycle of creation. During creation, Adishesha
supports all spheres of manifestation through the agency of cosmic
delusion.
It is Rahu who indicates the desires that are preserved in the state
after death that wait to return one to the physical realm for their

The Planets and Myth

21

fulfillment or transmutation. Rahu also creates an illusion of possible
fulfillment that keeps one's consciousness mired in the world.
BRAHMAN
Brahman is the Absolute, Unmanifested God beyond creation;
“the origin of all knowledge and love, the root of all power and joy.”
Brahman rightly presides over Ketu, the producer of liberation, the
only planet who is never satisfied with any love, knowledge,
information or happiness that creation, in its many aspects, has to
offer.

Vault of the Heavens

22

Astronomical Data of the Planets
Sun

Moon

Mars Mercury Jupiter

Venus

Saturn

Earth

Mean
N/A App. same 227,941, 57,910, 778,330, 108,200, 1,426,940, 149,6000,
as Earth
040
000
000
000
000
000
Distance
km
km
km
km
km
km
from Sun
N/A
27.3217 686.980 87.9694 11.86
224.7
29.46 365.256
Sidereal
days (from Days
Days
yrs
Days
yrs
Days
Period of
Earth)
Revolution
N/A
29.531 779.94
116
>1 year
584
>1 year
N/A
Mean
Days
Days
Days
Days
Synodic
Period
N/A
1.850
7.004
1.3
3.4
2.5
0 Deg.
Inclination N/A
of Orbit to
Deg
Deg.
Deg.
Deg
Deg (Cause of
Ecliptic)
Ecliptic
N/A
N/A
24.1
48
13.06
35
9.67
29.79
Mean
km/s
km/s
km/s
km/s
km/s
km/s
Orbital
Velocity
0.055
0.093
0.206
.048
0.007
0.056 0.0167
Eccentricity N/A
of Orbit
24.936
0
3.12
177.36
25.33
23.45
Tilt of
Deg
Deg.
Deg
Degs
Deg.
Deg.
Axis
Rotation 25days at 27.322 24h 37m 58.6461
9hrs
243
10h 23h 56m
Days
23s
Days 50 min at Days 39.4 min
4s
Period equator,
35 at pole
equator. (reverse)
6793.8 4,878 km 142,984 12,102.5 120,536 12,756.28
Diameter 1,390,000 3,476
km
km
km
± 2km
km
km
km
km
Mass 1.989e30 7.353e22 6.418e23 3.30e26 18.99e26 4.87e24 5.685e26 5.976e24
kg
kg
kg
kg
kg
kg
kg
kg
1.41
3.34
3.9
5.44
1.33
5.24
0.69
5.52
Density
g/cm^3 g/cm^3 g/cm^3 g/cm^3 g/cm^3 g/cm^3 g/cm^3 g/cm^3
Surface
162
372
370
2,2888
860 896-1,214 980
cm/s^2 cm/s^2 cm/s^2 cm/s^2 cm/s^2 cm/s^2 cm/s^2
Gravity
Silicates
Iron Hydrogen Silicates Hydrogen Silicates
Primary
Iron
Nickel Helium
Iron
Helium
Iron
Compo- Hydrogen Silicates
Sulphur Silicates
Nickel
Nickel
sition
2
none
16
none
>20
1
Satellites

A study of the astronomical characteristics has much to reveal about the planets.

Description and Indications of the Planets

23

2
Description and
Indications of the Planets
Following are the description and indications of the planets as
given in classical texts with notes to facilitate understanding:
Chief Aspect
The Sun is the Atman. The Moon is the Manas. Mars is
one's strength. Mercury is speech-giver. Jupiter confers
wisdom and happiness. Venus is one's passions. Saturn
denotes misery and grief.
The Sun represents the Atman, or universal soul, the divine Self,
inherent in all. The Atman is the source of true self-esteem,
confidence and humility.
The Moon represents the receptive mind known as the Manas, or
sense mind. In the Manas, the Jeeva (the self) lives with Ahamkara
(the ego), the idea of separate existence. Separate existence, meaning
an existence removed from the consciousness of Spirit, causes one to
relate and experience the world in some habitually formed manner.
Instead of viewing the world through Spirit, we view the world
through the agency of the Manas; therefore the Moon indicates how
we experience the world. Specifically it indicates our perception of
how the world affects us in our separate existence. In short the Moon
reflects our mental attitude.
Mars is one's strength, both physical and mental. Physically, Mars
is strong and appreciates a challenge. This makes him competitive.
Mars provides the capacity for the body to keep going even when it is
exhausted beyond its normal limits and is sick or famished. Symbolic
of strength is willpower, which Mars possesses in abundance, and

24

Vault of the Heavens

which he very much enjoys using. Mars likes to display his strength
and have it recognized, this may make him somewhat arrogant.
Mercury, as the speech-giver, is important with regard to all
worldly affairs. Speech and communication facilitate fair and practical
behavior, comprehension of all sides of an issue, and the
interpersonal sharing of needs and desires for the aim of reasonable
fulfillment. If an individual is unable to fulfill their desires in a fair
and practical manner, then the temptation to engage in unfair ways
will increase. It is Mercury who indicates the capacity for negotiation
in a fair, practical and impartial manner.
Jupiter represents wisdom and happiness. His wisdom stems from
the intuitive faculty and his happiness comes from faith in something
greater, which manifests as optimism. Jupiter has the capacity to infer
the deeper purpose in all our experiences. He sees the good in
everything and has the wisdom to experience the joy of each
moment.
Venus represents passions; the motivating influence in the heart
that helps us make decisions, and that which we love because doing
so provides happiness. This includes, but is not limited to, the desire
to share experiences with the opposite sex. When Venus is in a pure
state she gives the capacity to enjoy the pleasures of the world in a
healthy and balanced manner with unperturbed senses, and the ability
to make the best, balanced and heartfelt decisions.
Saturn represents the misery and sorrows that are the result of
ignorance. Furthermore, Saturn provokes one to behave in a manner
that continues to create misery. Saturn does this through the agency
of psychological complexes. For example, due to ignorance an
individual may have performed many selfish activities in a previous
incarnation. During the next incarnation the individual grows up in
difficult circumstances that create in him a psychological complex of
neediness. This motivates him to again behave in selfish ways. Only
after the results of one’s karma are reaped will the misery causing
veils of ignorance ruled by Saturn be lifted in the form of
psychological breakthroughs. In this manner, Saturn creates delays to
the successful fulfillment of the areas he influences.

Description and Indications of the Planets

25

Planetary Cabinet
The Sun and the Moon are the royal planets, the Sun
the king and the Moon the queen. Mars is the army
chief. Mercury is the crown prince. Jupiter and Venus
are ministers. Saturn is a servant. Rahu and Ketu form
the army.
The Sun is the king and provides the confidence required for
making and executing decisions in a congruent and steadfast manner.
He is of noble blood and an aristocrat.
The Moon is the queen who is full of social grace and care.
Mars, as the army chief, has an objective and uses his will and
power to accomplish it. Fulfilling the objective is of primary
importance; pleasantries and other time consumers do not fall in his
realm. Mars likes to be punctual, get to the point, and move on to
another agenda. Mars runs the army with his strong will. When in
power, he is a dictator and, like a surgeon, wields a precise scalpel to
remove any obstructions. This is not to say that Mars is self-serving
or evil, rather that Mars prefers to cut to the chase.
Like most princes, Mercury is given the luxury of play. He
represents the intellectual mind that is at home wheeling, dealing, and
progressing in the material world. Mercury prides himself at making
the correct calls in a business deal, card game, or marketing strategy.
Doing these things, Mercury is at play. As the crown prince, however,
he must eventually rule the kingdom. He does this when he becomes
spiritualized; at which time he becomes Buddhi, the discriminative
intelligence. Buddhi is capable of perceiving the Sat (Real substance)
from the Asat (unreal substance) thereby determining what is truth.
Mercury as Buddhi is most qualified to guide the kingdom.
Jupiter ministers with his knowledge and wisdom. He is known as
the preceptor of the Devas (divine beings). Jupiter comes as the guru,
astrologer, teacher and counselor to those in need who have merited
his time and attention. Jupiter is full of spiritual and lawful
knowledge. He also ministers as the judge who uses his wisdom to
establish fairness and order.

26

Vault of the Heavens

Venus is the Prime Minister who is full of worldly wisdom and
statecraft. Venus, more than any other, can recognize the true value
of a situation and act accordingly. Venus is known as the preceptor
of the Asuras (demons). He loves to enjoy pleasures and luxuries. In
Vedic mythology Venus is constantly reinvigorating the dead Asuras
in their fights with the Devas. This demonstrates his capacity to
continually reawaken the desire for pleasures and emphasizes his role
of teaching one how to enjoy the world.
Saturn is the servant and who does those things which others
refuse to do. Saturn indicates many self-worth and self-esteem issues,
the rewards of poor karmas, which make it difficult to live life to its
fullest capacity causing engagement, instead, in service to that which
is beneath our aspirations. On a higher note, however, Saturn serves
with the discipline, detachment and perseverance that supports the
performance of distasteful actions that ultimately proves beneficial.
An army has two purposes, to defend and protect secured
territories, and to move outward and conquer new realms. This is
what Rahu and Ketu do in their role as the planetary army. Ketu
represents the secured, controlled and established territories; and also
the reserve armies that maintain and protect the sovereign country so
that there is always a safe place to fall back and recuperate.
Established areas eventually run out of space, resources, adventure,
etc. This gives rise to the desire, or need, to march into undiscovered
realms. This task is given to Rahu, who represents the foreign,
unexplored, undiscovered and unknown realms. Rahu is the
aggressive front of the army that desires to conquer new territory
with little knowledge of what this involvement may mean. The
unexplored realms of Rahu are wild and unpredictable, very different
from the secured and established areas of Ketu.
Gunas
Sattvic planets are the Sun, the Moon and Jupiter.
Venus and Mercury are Rajasic. Mars, Saturn, Rahu
and Ketu are Tamasic.

Description and Indications of the Planets

27

Sattva are the elevating qualities that bring us in touch with our
higher natures and generate wisdom. Sattva results in: self-discipline,
love towards neighbors and animals, love for good qualities, love for
bliss and calmness, love for great men, practical sympathy,
benevolence towards the needy, spontaneous and habitual
truthfulness, duty out of love and respect, a reforming spirit, moral
reason, self-respect, quietness, a reserved nature, tenderness,
faithfulness, an obliging nature, patience, forgiveness, acting in
accordance with the suggestions of superior minds, outspokenness,
having a sense of propriety, amiability, simplicity, frankness, balance,
calmness, devotional feelings, contentment, love for mental and
physical cleanliness, modesty, philanthropic tendencies, impartiality,
gratitude, and reverence.
Rajas are the activating qualities that motivate us, through passion,
to pursue desires and goals. The eventual outcome of Rajas is grief.
Rajasic qualities are: occasional truthfulness with selfish motive,
fickleness, adroitness, over-seriousness, smartness, impulsiveness,
demonstrativeness, meddling, sanguine, fastidious, lively, and the
tendency to equip oneself with information about the environment.
Tamas are the obstructing qualities that prevent us from realizing
happiness, whether spiritually or materially. Tamas results in
ignorance. Tamasic qualities are: attachment to sense objects,
hypocrisy, sympathy, an undeveloped sense of “ought”, want of self
respect, inactivity, stupidity, dullness, shyness, imperviousness to
reason, callousness, dependence through want of capacity,
procrastination, moroseness, deception, carelessness, negligence,
strong feelings of obstinacy and anger when chastised for faults but
careless when not chastised and simply asked to mend faults,
crookedness, duplicitous, intellectually bent but heartless, lustful,
covetous, a stealing propensity, a begging nature, superstitious,
treacherousness, habitual untruthfulness, and shrinking attitude or
lack of self-confidence.
The Sun is Sattvic because he represents the soul. The Moon is
Sattvic because she represents purity of mind. Jupiter is Sattvic
because he represents wisdom, the outcome of Sattva, and the noble

28

Vault of the Heavens

qualities of faith, spirituality, forgiveness, charity, etc. Venus is Rajasic
because she seeks pleasure. Mercury is Rajasic because he creates
worldly interests and the desire for information. Mars is Tamasic
because he represents accidents, enemies and fighting. Saturn is
Tamasic because he is lazy, inert and depressed. Rahu is Tamasic
because he tends to operate with a lack of premeditation, becomes
compulsively attached, and creates phobias and unrealistic
perceptions. Ketu is Tamasic because he is shy, hides, is obstinate
and tends to abstain from any action. Ketu, however, is good for
spirituality, where he becomes capable of giving wisdom, insights,
and liberation.
Caste
Jupiter and Venus are Brahmins. The Sun and Mars are
Kshatriyas. The Moon and Mercury are Vaishyas.
Saturn is a Sudra. Rahu is an outcast. Ketu is of mixed
caste.
The castes are determined according to individual nature. This
nature is determined by the three Gunas. Brahmins manifest Sattva,
keeping Rajas and Tamas under control. Kshatriyas manifest
primarily Rajas, some Sattva and no Tamas. Vaishyas manifest
primarily Rajas, and slight Tamas, with Sattva mostly hidden. Sudras
manifest primarily Tamas, slight Rajas and no Sattva.
“Mind control, sense control, self-discipline, purity, forgiveness, honesty, wisdom,
Self-realization, and faith in a hereafter constitute the duties of Brahmins, springing
from their own nature.”
-Bhagavad Gita 18; 42
The Brahmins’ primary goal is Moksha or spiritual liberation.
They serve society through their wisdom and contemplation.
Spiritually, Brahmins are those who know the Brahman, the absolute
aspect of God. Their greatest enemy is pride; because they know so
much and are capable of doing so much good, there is greater
possibility of them becoming proud.

Description and Indications of the Planets

29

“Valor, radiance, resolute endurance, skillfulness, not fleeing from battle, generosity,
and leadership are the natural duties of the Kshatriyas” -Bhagavad Gita 18; 43
The Kshatriyas’ primary goal is Dharma, a life of self-discipline,
responsibility and right action. They serve society through the use of
their will as administrators and protectors. Spiritually, Kshatriyas are
sense-fighters. Kshatriyas, particularly Mars, must learn to control
impatience and anger. Their anger is the result of their powerful
Rajasic nature that causes them to believe that they have something
of great consequence to do.
“Tilling the soil, cattle breeding, and business are the natural duties of the
Vaishyas.”
-Bhagavad Gita 18; 44
The Vaishyas’ primary goal is Artha, which translates roughly as
gain and also includes the fulfillment but control of the desires. They
serve society through the use of their mentality, skill, and trade.
Spiritually, Vaishyas are preparing themselves for a more earnest
spiritual effort through learning and cultivating wisdom. Vaishyas
must learn not to get overly caught up in the world of pleasure,
which they must some day leave, without also developing spiritually.
“Actions that are of service to others are the natural duty of the Sudras”
-Bhagavad Gita 18; 44.5

The Sudras’ primary goal is Kama, desire for and activity of the
life of the senses. They serve society through bodily labor. Spiritually,
Sudras are body bound. The Sudras must be cautious not to waste
their life away in oversleeping or from living in a drug like stupor that
prevents them from bettering themselves in some manner. The high
degree of Tamas makes it virtually impossible for unassisted selfimprovement of a Sudra; therefore service under a more Sattvic
master is considered a blessing, because it allows for growth through
the association of good company.

30

Vault of the Heavens

In ancient times those who had only ill to offer society were
considered as outcastes; Rahu governs these. Their participation in
society was likely to lead to the disruption and weakening of the
society. Rahu creates the compulsions that provoke one to forego
any morals or care for others’ well being. Rahu also governs the
propensity for “black magic,” and dark psychic phenomenon that
prevents one from fitting comfortable into society.
Ketu, who rules the mixed caste, indicates those who are eccentric
in their nature and do not quite fit into any societal group. A person
of mixed caste was looked upon as unfortunate and therefore
avoided. People did not feel comfortable around those of mixed
caste because it was never known how they would behave due to
their lack of caste structure. A person of mixed caste also felt
uncomfortable, did not know where to fit in, and was often
hampered in becoming successful in the world.
Sex of the Planets
The Sun, Mars and Jupiter are male. The Moon and
Venus are female. Mercury and Saturn are neuters.
Masculine planets are affected by what they do; they feel good
when they do good. Feminine planets are affected by their feelings
about what happens to them; they do good when the feel good.
Neuter planets have the capacity to provide balance. Mercury
provides balance through discrimination. Saturn provides balance
through discipline and detachment.
Color of the Planets
The Sun is copper red. The Moon is white. Mars is blood
red. Mercury is the color of green grass. Jupiter is
golden. Venus is variegated. Saturn is black.
The Sun, as a reddish planet, indicates action and initiative. The
copper color, which is a mix of red and gold, inclines him towards
achieving something noble through his efforts.

Description and Indications of the Planets

31

The white Moon is pure, reflective, sensitive in nature, and loves
things to be clean and spotless.
Blood red Mars is focused on action and initiative, he loves
exertion. Mars is inclined to expend energy just for the sheer fun of
it. Mars loves to see red, feel red and indulges in speed, danger and
accidents.
Green Mercury is fresh, young, inexperienced, curious and quick
to learn.
Golden Jupiter is happy, joyful and optimistic; he possesses a
“golden” personality.
Variegated Venus is the natural actor and performer who may
animate, comfort, enliven, cheer or do almost anything in order to
express and receive love, adoration, fulfillment and pleasure.
Black Saturn darkens the consciousness through ignorance. If
Saturn's influences in this manner are very powerful one may even
have a black cast to their complexion. Black also symbolizes death,
which Saturn is the producer of.
Doshas
The Sun is Pitta. The Moon is Kapha and Vata. Mars is
Pitta. Mercury is a mix of all the three Doshas. Jupiter
is Kapha. Venus is Kapha and Vata. Saturn is Vata.
Rahu and Ketu are Vata.
The doshas are the constitutional humors useful in medical
astrology and Ayurveda. The dosha of a planet also has much to say
in regards to a planet's character. Pitta is fiery in constitution, Kapha
is watery and Vata is windy.
Though the classical texts present Ketu as Vata, in actual practice
he often manifests as Pitta. The Moon has more Kapha and less Vata
the brighter she is. The Moon is 100% Kapha when she is 180
degrees from the Sun and 100% Vata when at the same degree as the
Sun. In between, she is both.
Strength, aggressiveness and willfulness characterize Pitta. Pitta is
impulsive, forceful and passionate. Pitta does not like to be told what

32

Vault of the Heavens

to do and is rebellious in nature. Pitta is direct and goal oriented,
quickly tackles opposition, is independent yet likes to work in alliance
with others toward a common goal.
Kapha is characterized by an emotional nature. Kapha is loving,
devotional, sentimental, romantic and loyal. Kapha leans toward
contentment and is traditional in behavior and belief.
Intelligence and mental activity characterize Vata. Vata is socially
oriented, indecisive, easily disturbed, fearful and lacks endurance.
Taste
The Sun is pungent, the Moon salty, Mars bitter,
Mercury mixed in taste, Jupiter sweet, Venus sour, and
Saturn is astringent.
Sight
The Sun and Mars look upward. Venus and Mercury
look sideways. The Moon and Jupiter look evenly.
Saturn and Rahu look downward.
Upward looking planets are ambitious and always thinking of
what great things they hope to do in the future.
Sideways looking planets are waiting to receive something new.
Venus is waiting to receive the next pleasure or valued item. Mercury
is waiting to receive information.
Even looking planets are content in the moment. The Moon is
content because she feels good about herself. Jupiter is content
because he is full of joy.
Downward looking planets find it difficult to manifest their
desires and ideals. Saturn looks down because he is depressed and
therefore finds it a struggle to move forward.
Rahu directs the mind into the subconscious; the eyes naturally
point down when the consciousness is focused in the subconscious.
This happens when dreaming, fantasizing, taking drugs, or
hallucinating; all of which are ruled by Rahu.

Description and Indications of the Planets

33

Ketu, the tail of the demon, has no eyes. He can only attempt to
look inward. This makes him introverted by nature.
Using the Sight of the Planets:
The sight of a planet indicates the mental outlook during its dasa
or antardasa. The sight of other influencing planets must also be
considered, as they will modify the outlook.
Residence
The Sun resides in temples, the Moon in watery places,
Mars in fiery places, Mercury in play and sport
grounds, Jupiter in the treasury, Venus in the bedroom,
Saturn in a filthy place, Rahu in places of darkness,
and Ketu has its place in the corners of a house.
The Sun resides in all places of worship where the Self is most
revealed. The Moon is in all watery places, including bathrooms,
pools, laundries, and oceans, where refreshment and renewal take
place. Mars is in all fiery places including kitchens, kilns, welding
shops, and chemistry labs. Mercury is in all places that stimulate
amusement, interest, and curiosity. Venus is in all places of pleasure
including hotels, restaurants, and wineries. Saturn is in all places that
are unkempt and disregarded. Rahu is in all dark places where there is
no clarity of vision. Ketu is in the corners of the house where he is
trying to hide and remain inconspicuous.
Age of the Planets
The Sun is of 50 years, the Moon is of 70, Mars is a
young child, Mercury is a youth, Jupiter is 30, Venus is
16, and Saturn, Rahu and Ketu are each 100 years of
age.
Maturation Age
The Sun matures at 22 years of age, the Moon at 24,

34

Vault of the Heavens

Mars at 28, Mercury at 32, Jupiter at 16, Venus at 25,
Saturn at 36, and Rahu and Ketu mature at 48 years of
age.
The maturation age represents the age a planet matures in the
personality. Just because a planet matures at a particular age does not
mean it does not undergo any subsequent changes. It is only to say
that, at that point, the individual gains the capacity to exercise the full
range of the planet.
At sixteen the capacity for moral judgment and philosophy
matures. Previous to this, thoughts on these matters have not yet
been developed to individual standards. Women who give birth at 16
have children (which Jupiter rules) with the fewest birth defects.
At twenty-two a person matures as an independent individual.
At twenty-four a person matures emotionally, and they become
more aware of their attitude and outlook on life.
At twenty-five the ability to recognize what exactly will fulfill
personal desires matures, especially with regard to romantic partners.
This does not mean that these things will necessarily be accomplished
at this age, only that at this time there will be a clear idea of it for the
first time.
At twenty-eight one’s physical and internal strength matures. The
greatest indication for maturation in this is to know when to use
one’s strength, knowing when to fight.
At thirty-two the capacity for rational thinking matures.
At thirty-six the capacity for discipline and focus matures. At this
point a clear understanding develops regarding personal path and
duty, and what must done to bring these to fruition.
At forty-eight the capacity to balance the powerful forces of Rahu
and Ketu matures. These planets are always in exact opposition,
creating a seesaw effect in one’s life, back and forth between the two
houses where Rahu and Ketu are placed. During their maturation age
one develops to capacity to balance the areas influenced by the
nodes.

Description and Indications of the Planets

35

Using the Maturation Age of the Planets:
The maturation age of a planet is of great importance. During the
year of a planet’s maturation the native will reap many of the
indications of that planet. The indications of the house the planet
rules, the house the planet is in, and the planet’s natural indications
will all manifest to some extent. These may be auspicious or
inauspicious. In the event that the planet is afflicted then there will be
great challenges towards the native’s learning to use the full qualities
of the planet, as well as disturbances to its indications. If the planet is
well placed in the horoscope its year may give rise and success, and a
full use of the qualities of the planet.
It is during the year of life in which the planet matures that any
potential challenges or success will immerge. In order that the proper
year is being understood an example is being given: The Sun matures
at 22, the 22nd year is from age 21 to 22.
The year following the maturation year is also important for
moving forward with what was learned and gained as a result of the
planet maturing.
An important year for self-development is the maturation year of
the lagna lord.
Description of the Planets
The Sun's eyes are honey colored, he has a square
body, a prominent appearance and little hair on his
head. He is pure, intelligent, and courageous.
The Sun's square body makes him steadfast.
The Moon is huge, has a round but thin body,
auspicious looks, and sweet speech. She is intuitive,
discriminating, kind and fickle-minded.
The Moon discriminates through feeling rather than through the
use of the intellect. She does this by choosing that which feels good.

36

Vault of the Heavens

Mars is youthful, with a thin waist and body, and blood
red eyes. He is cruel, ill mannered, fickle-minded,
courageous, liberal, and given to anger.
Mars is cruel in that he hurts and breaks things as he goes about
his activities. He is not cruel in a sadistic sense unless other evil
planets influence him.
Mercury is endowed with an attractive appearance,
balanced build, and is agreeable to all in dress and
speech. He is skillful, witty and fond of jokes.
Jupiter has a large body, tawny hair, and large golden
eyes. He is fond of virtues, of forgiving disposition,
modest, intelligent and learned in all sastras.
Venus is charming, with a beautiful body, lovely eyes,
and curly hair. She is joyful, amorous, poetic, fortunate
and sensuous.
Saturn has an emaciated and long body, coarse hair,
prominent veins, big teeth, and yellow, depressed eyes.
He is indolent, lame, and hardhearted.
Saturn, due to his hardhearted nature, may be very cold in his
behavior. He often is in denial himself and may be so blocked that he
does not have a clear idea of exactly how cold he may be.
Rahu creates smoke, being horrible with a blue-mix
body, and skin diseases. He is irreligious, cunning and
speaks falsehood.
The smoke of Rahu makes it difficult to see clearly and manifests
as confusion, imaginings etc.

Description and Indications of the Planets

37

Ketu is smoky, of fierce look, with reddish eyes and a
lean body marked by bruises. He is brutal by nature,
and always inhaling smoke.
The smoke of Ketu makes it difficult to see, hides things, and
creates unexpected happenings. Ketu also gives fierce and intense
moods.
Benefics and Malefics
Saturn, Mars, the Sun, waning Moon, Rahu and Ketu
are malefics. Jupiter, Venus, Mercury and waxing Moon
are benefics. Mercury, however, is a malefic if he joins
a malefic.
Planets behave as natural benefics or malefics due to their innate
nature. Some planets by their very nature damage those areas they
affect and are, therefore, termed as malefic. Other planets enhance
those areas they affect and are termed benefic.
Saturn is a malefic because he causes delays and separation from
the areas he affects. He causes these difficulties because he indicates
where we suffer the results of our poor karmas, and he will not allow
us to reap the benefits of the areas he affects until the law of karma
has been fulfilled. Saturn is the cross that each of us bears.
Mars is a malefic because he tends to break things, cause
accidents, and create quarrels with others.
The Sun is a malefic because he separates us from the areas he
affects. Those things the Sun is influencing are sacrificed to obtain
spiritual growth and a deeper individuality.
Rahu is a malefic because he causes delays and separation from
the areas he affects. He causes delays because he indicates where we
have little knowledge, and therefore have much to learn before things
will work out. Rahu causes separation because he indicates where we
act with a lack of forethought and may therefore get caught up in
something not in our best long-term interest that we must leave
sometime in the future. He also causes separation by creating

38

Vault of the Heavens

longings that are not fulfilled even when the desired object is
acquired, thereby creating the tendency to leave one thing for
another.
Ketu is a malefic because he hides those areas he affects in
addition to destroying, and, thereby, freeing us from attachments.
Ketu hides the areas he affects by causing feelings of doubt and
creating discontentment that prevents an individual from putting
forth the necessary effort. He destroys those areas he affects through
self-destructive actions stemming from intense discontent and deep,
unfulfilled feelings.
Jupiter is a benefic because he provides fortune, blessings, and
abundance. He expands and provides more of the good aspects of
whatever he affects. He shows where we have been virtuous,
forgiving and kind, and therefore have good karma to reap. Most
importantly, Jupiter is the good merit that protects us from other
adverse influences.
Venus is a benefic because she provides all comforts, pleasures
and luxuries. She gives refinement, and social grace. Most
importantly, she gives the diplomacy so necessary for dealing with
others.
Mercury is a benefic because he provides the capacity to
understand the areas he affects in a clear and impartial manner. This
allows us to behave with balance and discrimination. Mercury is a
mutable planet and takes on the nature of the planets he associates
with. When with a malefic he becomes malefic in nature; his normal,
impartial nature instead favors the views and desires of the malefic.
Mercury does not become malefic on account of being with Rahu or
Ketu; he maintains his benefic status because Rahu and Ketu are
shadowy in nature and they themselves tend to take on the nature of
other planets.
From new moon to full moon the Moon is waxing and her light is
increasing. From full moon to new moon the Moon is waning; and
her light is decreasing. The amount of light determines the Moon’s
beneficence. As her light increases, she gains greater beneficence. As
her light decreases, she looses her beneficence. From the waxing half-

Description and Indications of the Planets

39

moon phase, which occurs when the Moon is 90 degrees from the
Sun, to the waning half-moon phase when the Moon is 270 degrees
away from the Sun, the Moon is a benefic. From 270 degrees to 90
degrees, the Moon is a malefic.
The Moon has no light of her own and as she merely reflects the
light of the Sun; the capacity of the Moon to nourish and provide
growth is only a reflection of the creative energy of the Sun. From
new moon to the waxing half-moon, the Moon has a creative urge
and desire but finds it difficult to focus enough energy to bring desire
into reality, therefore, the areas she affects are frustrated. From
waxing half-moon to waning half-moon, the Moon is full of
nourishing, growth producing energy and therefore enhances the
areas she affects. From waning half-moon to new moon, the Moon is
loosing her light and lack is felt in the areas she affects. Those things
the malefic Moon influences do not fulfill one’s needs.
According to Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra, the Moon must have
an AyanaBala of 40 virupas to be considered strong, therefore, the
Moon is an effective benefic when it is 120 – 240 degrees from the
Sun, at which point its AyanaBala is 40 virupas or greater. Half of 40
virupas is 20 virupas; the Moon has 20 virupas or less of AyanaBala
when it is 300 – 60 degrees from the Sun, at which point it becomes
an effective malefic.
The planets additionally gain temporal status as a benefic or
malefic depending upon which houses they rule in a horoscope. This
often creates many confusing contradictions for the beginning
astrologer. A good thumb rule is that the natural tendency of a planet
affects any area or combination it influences in the horoscope
according to its natural benefic or malefic nature. The temporal
nature indicates the motivation and goal of a planet.
Body Tissues
The Sun governs bones, the Moon the blood, Mars the
marrow, Mercury the skin, Jupiter the fat and brain,
Venus semen, and Saturn the nerves.

40

Vault of the Heavens

The bones provide the body with a solid foundation. Similarly, the
Sun provides the personality with steadfastness.
The blood renews the body by nourishing and cleansing toxins
from the cells; it is the Moon who governs all renewal. The Moon is
especially important for emotional renewal, keeping us mentally
healthy and balanced.
The marrow is where red blood cells are created, and is, therefore,
a storehouse of energy. As one ages, the red marrow, which produces
the energy carrying red blood cells, is replaced with yellow, fatty
marrow. Similarly, Mars is the energy that weakens as one ages.
The skin is the initial boundary of the body that provides the
organism with its first line of defense against anything threatening
from the environment. Similarly, Mercury provides certain
boundaries through the agency of communication.
Jupiter governs fat, which acts as the body’s saving account, and
Jupiter does rule banks. Fat is also the essential tissue of the brain,
which Jupiter also rules. The brain houses the higher spiritual centers
in man where wisdom, knowledge and intuition are seated. The brain
has an unlimited capacity for expansion and growth. Man's
consciousness when raised into the spiritual centers located in the
brain produces the greatest joy. Jupiter ruling the brain again
establishes Jupiter as the highest and purest of planets.
Semen, according to the Upanishads, is referred to as the organ of
generation. Venus, the governor of semen, generates life through
desire. An example of this is the sexual act, which, usually done out
of desire, has within it is the potential to create life. Venus, by
providing worldly pleasure, also generates the desire for life.
The nerves are the channels through which the consciousness of
man descends from the seven centers (the chakras) in the spine and
brain into the senses. Once man's consciousness descends into the
senses he becomes aware only of those things which the senses
perceive, and therefore becomes blind to Spirit. This is the root cause
of the misery that Saturn indicates, a misery that is no more than a
consciousness of separation between human consciousness and
spiritual consciousness.

Description and Indications of the Planets

41

The Five Elements
Mars governs fire, Mercury earth, Jupiter ether, Venus
water, and Saturn governs air.
Mars as applied energy rules fire. Mercury as the concrete rational
mind rules earth. Jupiter due to his intuitive and faithful nature rules
ether, the intangible element. Venus as passionate emotions rules
water. Saturn as detachment rules air.
Fire in general is symbolized by the Sun, however, fire is applied
as energy through Mars. Water in general is symbolized by the Moon,
however, water is felt in the heart by Venus. We respond to ether, the
element that is intangible to the senses, as faith, hope, and joy
through Jupiter. We respond to earth in the practical day-to-day
needs required in order to sustain us through Mercury as trade,
commerce, forethought, and planning. We respond to air as
detachment given by Saturn.
Trees
The Sun rules strong trees, Saturn useless trees, the
Moon milky trees, Mars thorny trees, Venus floral
plants, Jupiter fruitful trees, Mercury fruitless but
useful trees, and Rahu and Ketu rule bushes.
The Sun, symbolizing strength and firmness of character, rules
strong trees such as oaks.
Saturn ruling useless trees, indicates Saturn's tendency of trying to
maintain old, no longer useful structures. Saturn does this in an
outward manner through conservatism and inwardly by maintaining
psychological defenses. He does this in an attempt to maintain a
sense of security.
The life force of a tree is in its milk or sap. The Moon, ruling
milky trees, is indicative of the her role as a nurturer and governor of
the life force. The life force is maintained when the mind, the Moon,
is healthy. Any mental/emotional disturbance negatively affects the
life force, leading to disease.

42

Vault of the Heavens

Mars rules thorny trees, as well as bitter trees, due to his sharp
nature.
Venus is most beautiful and therefore rules floral plants pleasant
to the sight and smell.
Jupiter rules fruitful trees as he indicates the best fruits of any
work.
Mercury's inventive and commercial nature allows him to rule
fruitless trees that have other useful properties, especially those of
commercial value.
Bushes have never been given the stature of a tree. If someone
were to accidentally kill a bush he might say “it’s just a bush” and not
care so much. If he were to kill a tree, however, he would feel much
worse. These days planting a tree is considered a noble act, as it was
in ancient times in India, but planting a bush is not considered with
the same regard. Rahu and Ketu are similarly not given the same
stature as the other planets. In fact they only became planets as a
result of a boon from Brahma.
Bushes can grow in areas where trees are unable. They can be cut
down to almost nothing and grow back in a short time. Like weeds,
they have a tendency to overrun their growing areas and may become
a nuisance. Only when they are carefully pruned and maintained are
they considered beautiful. Rahu and Ketu, like bushes, have a
tendency to “overrun” the planets that they affect by clouding the
pure qualities of the planets with compulsions, discontentment,
inconsistencies and imbalances. Only through the careful “pruning”
of introspection and disciplined spiritual life can the evil effects of
Rahu and Ketu be overcome.
Though trees have more practical and food value, a larger number
of herbal medicines, as well as poisons, come from bushes. Rahu and
Ketu do not have much meat to satisfy our appetite; however, they
do teach us to take spiritual “medicine” in order to cure the panaceas
of worldly life. They do this by creating discontentment, by fueling
desire that is unappeased by worldly living, and by separating us form
areas of attachment. They thereby have the capacity to serve as

Description and Indications of the Planets

43

spiritual motivators. They can do this only if there are spiritual factors
in the nativity; otherwise they act more like poisons.
Person
The Sun indicates the father, the Moon the mother,
Mars one’s siblings, Mercury friends and relatives.
Jupiter the Guru (teacher), children, and husband,
Venus the wife, Saturn a common man, Rahu the
maternal grandmother and paternal grandfather, and
Ketu indicates the maternal grandfather and paternal
grandmother.
The father is, as the masculine, solar force within the family,
responsible for establishing the status and position of the family. This
provides the individual with an identity to go forth with into the
world.
The mother is, as the feminine, lunar force within the family,
responsible for creating a comfortable and accepting environment.
This allows for healthy emotional expression and a healthy mental
attitude.
Siblings, as our first companions, are responsible for teaching us
how to work towards a common objective with disciplined, joint
effort. This includes learning how to differentiate and make use of
our strengths, just as Mars, the army chief, makes use of each
individual’s strength to accomplish a given task. On a more esoteric
note, the siblings, though coming from the same source, are all
different as a result of each sibling holding different concepts and
having different expectations put upon them. It is Mars who rules the
mental concepts and ideas that we strongly hold onto creating the
idea of differentiation.
Friends are those with whom we play and with whom we share
things of similar interest. Mercury rules those interesting things we
want to talk about and share.
The guru is responsible for teaching wisdom and proper moral,
spiritual behavior, which are represented by Jupiter. Jupiter also

44

Vault of the Heavens

represents the husband. To quote Carl Jung, “It is almost a regular
occurrence for a woman to be wholly contained spiritually in her
husband...” One of the spiritual duties of man is to his ancestors. He
fulfills this duty by having children, who, as a spiritual duty, are
indicated by Jupiter.
Venus is indicative of all romantic love and the producer of
romantic partners for both men and women. Venus, however, is a
specific indicator of the wife in a man's horoscope, a man's due
reward for his good actions.
Saturn represents the struggles common to all of mankind. This
inclines him towards the common man, making him a democrat.
There is some difference of opinion about which grandparent
Rahu and Ketu rule. Following is a brief explanation of why I choose
to use Ketu as the indicator of the maternal grandfather and paternal
grandmother and Rahu as the indicator for the paternal grandfather
and maternal grandmother. We are the result of our past. Biologically
we are the products of our parents. There is, therefore, a significant
link between the past that formed us and our parents. Ketu
represents the past; because he is the node of the Moon (the mind),
he represents the mental peculiarities from the past biologically
manifesting through the agency of our parents. The maternal
grandfather, represented by Ketu, has a greater effect upon the
mentality of the mother because women generally take on more of
the mental peculiarities of their father. The paternal grandmother,
also represented by Ketu, has a greater effect upon the mentality of
the father because men generally take on more of the mental
peculiarities of their mother. Therefore, Ketu must rule the maternal
grandfather and the paternal grandmother, and Rahu must rule the
remaining grandparents.
Using the Person Ruled by the Planets:
The psychological indications that the native will be dealing with
at a given time are relative to the person indicated by the planet. This
is of primarily importance in the dasa of the Sun, during which issues
concerning the father will be dealt with, and the dasa of the Moon,

Description and Indications of the Planets

45

during which issues concerning the mother will be dealt with.
Vedas
Jupiter rules the Rig-Veda, Venus the Yajur-Veda, Mars
the Sama-Veda, and Mercury rules the Atharva-Veda.
The Rig-Veda is the oldest of spiritual texts consisting of hymns
to different manifestations of God. The Yajur-Veda is a handbook of
rituals for the priests who conduct the ceremonial rites. The SamaVeda contains chants with their proper melodic intonation. The
Atharva-Veda contains incantations and formulas to appease negative
forces and gain mundane favors in addition to containing the
prescriptions that were the beginning of Ayurvedic healing.
Time Periods
An Ayana is ruled by the Sun, a Muhurtha by the Moon,
a day by Mars, a Ritu by Mercury, a month by Jupiter,
a Paksha by Venus, and a year by Saturn. Rahu and
Ketu denote 8 months and 3 months respectively.
An Ayana is the period it takes the Sun to cover its northern
course from the first day of winter to the first day of summer, or its
southern course from the first day of summer to the first day of
winter. This is a period of six months. A Muhurtha is two ghatis or
48 minutes. A Ritu is a season, since there are six seasons in a Hindu
year, a Ritu corresponds to two months. A Paksha is the period from
new moon to full moon, or from full moon to new moon. This
compromises 15 tithis (lunar days), or about 2 weeks.
Period of Life
The Moon rules the age up to 4, Mercury from 5-14,
Venus from 15-22, the Sun from 23-41, Mars from 4256, Jupiter from 57- 68, and Saturn, Rahu and Ketu
rule from 69-108 years of age.

46

Vault of the Heavens

The period of the Moon is that of infancy when the Mother is the
guiding light of the child’s life. This is the period most important for
healthy emotional growth.
The period of Mercury is that of learning the important
fundamental skills necessary in life. This is also the period of
apprenticeship.
The period of Venus is that of love and passion following
puberty, as well as the first yearnings for marriage.
The period of the Sun is that of career focus and gaining status
and respect in society.
The period of Mars is a period of disciplined activity, ideally for
the purpose of spiritual growth, and the need for freedom to pursue
activities that are deemed important.
The period of Jupiter is a period of wisdom and spirituality, or
one of wealth, happiness and affluence.
The period of Saturn, Rahu and Ketu is one of fulfilling the
karmas allotted this life, of degeneration, and of eventual death, but
possibly detachment and liberation.
Using the Period of Life of the Planets:
Judging the planet that governs a period of life allows for a
general overview of the life during that time, especially in respect to
that planet’s developmental needs.
Seasons
Venus rules Vasanta, Mars Greeshma, the Moon
Varsha, Mercury Sarad, Jupiter Hemanta, and Saturn
Sisira.
In India there are six seasons roughly corresponding as listed:
Vasanta, ruled by Venus: March 22- May 21 the spring blooming
season. Greeshma, ruled by Mars: May 22- July 21, the hot months.
Varsha, ruled by the Moon: July 22- September 21, the rainy,
monsoon season. Sarad, ruled by Mercury: September 22-November

Description and Indications of the Planets

47

21, the fall. Hemanta, ruled by Jupiter: November 22-January 21,
early winter. Sisira, ruled by Saturn: January 22-March 22, late winter.
The Sun being the cause of the seasons is not given lordship over
a season. He is, however, considered to co-rule Greeshma with Mars.
Dhatu, Moola and Jeeva
Rahu, Mars, Saturn and the Moon rule Dhatus. The Sun
and Venus rule Moolas. Mercury, Jupiter and Ketu rule
Jeevas.
Dhatus are the minerals, the inanimate kingdom. Moolas are the
roots, the plant kingdom. Jeevas are the living beings, the animal
kingdom as well as human beings.
Senses
The Sun, Moon and Mars rule the sight, Venus the
taste, Mercury the smell, Jupiter the hearing, and
Saturn and Rahu govern the touch.
The Sun has particular influence on the right eye and the Moon
has particular influence on the left eye. Also, Rahu influences the
psychic sense and Ketu influences the intuitive sense.
Substances
The Sun rules copper, the Moon gems, Mars gold,
Mercury alloys, Jupiter silver, Venus pearls, Saturn
iron, Rahu lead, and Ketu rules turquoise.
Mercury rules alloys, which are a blend of metals, because he rules
all that is mixed.
Rahu rules lead, which is very heavy, dull, and poisonous, as is
Rahu’s nature.
Jupiter, who rules silver, also rules, according to some texts, gold
when he is in his own rasi.

Vault of the Heavens

48

Clothes
The Sun governs rough, thick cloth, the Moon new
clothes, Mars burnt clothes, Mercury washed clothes,
Jupiter neither new nor old clothes, Venus strong
clothes, Saturn rags, Rahu multi-colored clothes, and
Ketu also rules rags.
Directions
The Sun lords over the East, Venus the Southeast, Mars
the South, Rahu the Southwest, Saturn the West, The
Moon the Northwest, Mercury the North, and Jupiter
over the Northeast.
Me

Mo

Sa

N

E

W

Ra

Ju

S

Su

Ve

Ma
Gemstone
The Sun has as its gem a ruby, the Moon a spotless
pearl, Mars red coral, Mercury emerald, Jupiter yellow
sapphire, Venus diamond, Saturn blue sapphire, Rahu
gomedha (hessonite garnet), and Ketu has cat’s-eye as
its gem.

Description and Indications of the Planets

49

Letters
Sun- Vowels: $ a, $Daa, ]i, ]RRii, =u, =<uu,ari,

aTrri,OTlri,( e, (Rai,$DRo, $D2au.
Moon- \ Y, U R,O L,Y V,6 Sh, 5 Sh, V S,K H.
Mars- Guttural: N K, . Kh, J G, * Gh, H Ng.
Mercury- Retroflex: Z T, [ Th, H D, I Dh, 1 N.
Jupiter- Dental: W T, 7 Th, G D, ' Dh, Q N.
Venus- Palatal: F C, & Ch, M J, - Jh, "Nj.
The letters of the planets have many uses. One simple application
is in the rectification of the birth time. More often then not the first
letter of the native’s name corresponds to one of the letters ruled by
the lord of the rasi or navamsa that the lagna or Moon is in.
Rasis
The Moon rules Cancer, the Sun Leo, Mercury Gemini
and Virgo, Venus Taurus and Libra, Mars Aries and
Scorpio, Jupiter Sagittarius and Pisces, and Saturn
rules Capricorn and Aquarius.
Exaltation and Debilitation
Deep
Deep
Planet Exaltation Exaltation
Debilitation Debilitation
Sun:
Aries
10 ° Aries
Libra
10 ° Libra
Moon:
Taurus 0-3 ° 3 ° Taurus
Scorpio, 0-3 ° 3 ° Scorpio
Mars:
Capricorn
28 ° Capricorn Cancer
28 ° Cancer
Mercury: Virgo, 0-15 ° 15 ° Virgo
Pisces, 0-15 ° 15 ° Pisces
Jupiter: Cancer
5 ° Cancer
Capricorn
5 ° Capricorn
Venus: Pisces
27 ° Pisces
Virgo
27 ° Virgo
Saturn: Libra
20 ° Libra
Aries
20 ° Aries
Each planet has an exaltation sign. Within the exaltation sign

50

Vault of the Heavens

there is a degree of deep exaltation wherein the planet is at its
absolute finest. An exalted planet is extremely strong in its nature and
also refined to a much more perfected, pure, and productive state.
A planet is considered debilitated in the sign opposite, or 7th from,
its exaltation. It is in deep debilitation when in the degree opposite its
deep exaltation degree. A planet in debilitation is very weak in its
nature and exhibits none of its natural beneficial or useful
characteristics. The organs ruled by a debilitated planet will be
genetically weak and prone to disease. In certain cases, a debilitated
planet may be a producer of rise, success and wealth. Debilitated
planets, though offering some difficulties, may, therefore, be
beneficial.
JUDGING PLANETARY TYPES
People may be typified according to the planets. Very generally
speaking, the personality will predominately take on the
characteristics of the strongest planets in the horoscope. A planet will
strongly influence the personality:
1. When it is in its own, moolatrikona, or exaltation sign.
2. When it is in the Lagna (first house).
3. When it joins the Lagna lord.
If there is more than one planet in its own, moolatrikona, or
exaltation sign, and one of them is in an angle, then the one in an
angle will indicate more dominant characteristics.
Personalities are also striking due to any weakness that may be
present. In the event that there is a particularly weak planet in the
horoscope, that planet will also dominate the person’s character, but
based on a weakness, or unbalanced expression of the planet, rather
than strength. A planet is particularly weak if it is debilitated. Under
certain conditions, these weak planets may be planets that the native
is famous and recognized for. Some of these conditions are listed in
the “Dignities” chapter.

Description and Indications of the Planets

51

THE OUTER PLANETS
The outer planets: Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto are not
traditionally used in Vedic astrology. The outer planets are to distant
from the Earth to be seen, and hence do not distribute “light” upon
the Earth in the same fashion as that of the other planets. They,
therefore, indicate different considerations than do the visible
planets.
The outer planets indicate the evolutionary forces working within
an individual. How an individual handles these forces, however, is dependent
upon the seven visible planets. Also, the outer planets, being invisible,
relate to the unconscious and therefore can work only through the
agency of Rahu and Ketu. It, therefore, becomes of utmost
importance to understand the meaning and use of the seven visible
planets, Rahu and Ketu. In addition, with the use of Rahu, Ketu and
the Nakshatras (another division of the zodiac into 27 parts), Vedic
astrology allows the astrologer to analyze the indications in the
horoscope which Western astrologers use the outer planets for.
Judging these indications through the use of the planets as
traditionally used in Vedic astrology has the added advantage of
providing practical remedies and advice for overcoming negative or
difficult indications that would not be available if only the outer
planets were studied. This is not to say that a study of the outer
planets is not useful. In fact some important and interesting aspects
of a horoscope may be more easily seen with the use of the outer
planets. Providing practical guidelines, however, will not be as easily
done, or as efficient. Western astrologers pay great emphasis to the
transits of the outer planets, though again, a deep look at the Dasa
systems of timing will also reveal the indications of an outer planet
transit.
Depending upon where your studies take you, you may or may
not wish to add the outer planets to your studies. The outer planets
can give insights about the native, their lessons and times of growth.
They must, however, never be used for making concrete predictions.

Vault of the Heavens

52

$ % & ' ( ) * + ,
S
u
n
S
u
r
y
a

M
o
o
n

M
a
r
s

C
h
a
n
d
r
a

K
u
j
a

M
e
r
c
u
r
y

J
u
p
i
t
e
r

B
u
d
h
a

G
u
r
u

V
e
n
u
s
S
u
k
r
a

S
a
t
u
r
n
S
a
n
i

N.
N
o
d
e

S.
N
o
d
e

R
a
h
u

K
e
t
u

The Rasis

53

3
The Rasis
The zodiac, the broad belt the planets move through, is divided
into twelve divisions of thirty degrees each. The common Sanskrit
word for one of these divisions is a Rasi. The twelve rasis in their
order from the beginning of the Zodiac are Aries, Taurus, Gemini,
Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius,
and Pisces.
ZODIAC AND CHAKRA CORRESPONDENCE
The Zodiac is actually a macrocosmic correspondence of the
spinal centers, or chakras. The Law of Correspondence holds that if
two things look alike, they must be in reciprocation with each other.
This is the basis for healing arts such as reflexology. In respect to
astrology, since the Zodiac is similar to the chakras, what is
happening in the Zodiac corresponds to what is happening in the
spinal centers; what is indicated by the Zodiac is what is awakening in
the chakras. This works both ways, an individual who is improving
that which is awakening in their chakras through spiritual practices,
penance, etc. will have a corresponding influence on the Zodiac.
Indeed, whatever we do affects everything else as well. The following
table illustrates the correspondence of the rasis to the chakras:
Cancer G
Gemini F
Taurus E
Aries D
Pisces O
Aquarius N

Medullar Plexus
Cervical Plexus
Dorsal Plexus
Lumbar Plexus
Sacral Plexus
Coccyges Plexus

H Leo
I Virgo
J Libra
K Scorpio
L Sagittarius
M Capricorn

It will be noticed that there is no correspondence to the Crown

54

Vault of the Heavens

Chakra, or 1,000 Petaled Lotus, the center of divine illumination. It is
only this highest center that is free from the influence of fate
indicated by astrology.
What about the planets? The rasis, as mentioned correspond to
the chakras, the planets correspond to what is happening in the
chakras. Each planet is the lord of one or two rasis. The planets
correspond to the energy of the chakras, their placement indicates the
distribution and flow of energies within the chakras.
A note should also be said regarding remedials, such as
gemstones, mantras, etc. Remedials have as their goal the
redistribution or balance of the energy awakening in the chakras,
thereby changing the influence of fate as indicated in the horoscope.
LORDS OF THE RASIS
Each planet rules, or lords over, two rasis of the zodiac, which are
considered as his own house or own rasi. The Sun and the Moon,
however, each own only one rasi. Each planet rules a positive,
masculine energized rasi and a negative, feminine energized rasi. The
Sun and Moon are polar opposites with the Sun ruling only one
masculine rasi and the Moon ruling only one feminine rasi.
The Sun has Leo as its male rasi. The Moon has Cancer as its
female rasi. Mercury has Gemini as its male rasi, and Virgo as its
female rasi. Venus has Libra as its male rasi, and Taurus as its female
rasi. Mars has Aries as its male rasi, and Scorpio as its female rasi.
Jupiter has Sagittarius as its male rasi, and Pisces as its female rasi.
Saturn has Aquarius as its male rasi, and Capricorn as its female rasi.
The following table illustrates this:
Cancer G - Moon / Sun + H Leo
Mercury
- I Virgo
Gemini F +
Venus
+ J Libra
Taurus E Mars
- K Scorpio
Aries D +
Jupiter
+ L Sagittarius
Pisces O Saturn
- M Capricorn
Aquarius N +

The Rasis

55

The positive energized rasis will exhibit the planet's energy in a
masculine, initiative manner; the negative energized rasis will exhibit
the planet's energy in a feminine, receptive manner.
DESCRIPTIVE SYMBOLS OF THE RASIS
The names of the rasis are generally well known, however the
symbol of the rasis in some cases is not so well known. Following are
the description of the rasis as given in Brihat Jataka:
Aries is represented by a ram.
Taurus is represented by a bull.
Gemini is indicated by a man with a club and a women
with a lute in close embrace.
Cancer is represented by a crab.
Leo is represented by a lion.
Virgo is represented by a virgin in a boat with grains
in one hand and a light in the other.
Libra represents a man in a bazaar with a balance
scale in hand.
Scorpio is represented by a scorpion.
Sagittarius is a centaur with the hind part of a horse
and the front of an archer.
Capricorn bears the face of a dear with the hinder part
of a crocodile, (though also known as a goat).
Aquarius is represented by a person bearing an empty
water pot.
Pisces is represented by two fish lying close together
with their heads pointing in opposite directions.

56

Vault of the Heavens

CHARACTERISTICS OF THE RASIS
Classical works give many details regarding the rasis. The
following table provides a list of the various details as given in the
classics. All the classics include some contradictions and differences.
The Rishis gave us a science deep and rich in symbolism. The beauty
of symbolism is that the meanings are endless. In making this table I
have done my best to provide the student with the most useful and
clear information as I understand it. In order to facilitate the students
understanding of the symbolism, I have included explanations for the
various characteristics as given by the Rishis. To no degree, however,
should the student limit his understanding of what has been given by
the Rishis to my explanations. He should, in fact, always strive to
deepen his understanding of the symbolism.
There is a lot of information in the table. A good way to learn it is
to look for connections that will make it easier to memorize the
indications of the rasis. For example, the fire rasis all rule the east,
they are all Kshatriyas, all rule medium level, and all are Pitta in
constitution. Following is an explanation of the different rasi qualities
that are given in the table:
ELEMENT
The elements indicates the type of energy:
1. Fire is intuitive and self.
2. Earth is rational and material.
3. Air is intellectual and social.
4. Water is feeling and contemplative/emotional.
Using the Element:
The element, whether fire, water, earth or air, in which the
greatest amount of the following are placed in will become dominant
in the natives character:
1. The Lagna
2. The Lagna Lord
3. The Moon
4. The Sun

The Rasis

57

The element, which has the most planets, will also have a
noticeable effect on the general nature of the native.
MODALITY
The modality is the type of energy inherent in a rasi, whether
creative, preservative or destructive.
Creative energy is inherent in the movable rasis. Moveable rasis
prompt action and change; they indicate the initial awareness of
energy. They are also known as cardinal rasis. The common Sanskrit
term is Chara rasi.
Preservative energy is inherent in the fixed rasis. Fixed rasis are
secure and indicate the stabilization of energy. Fixed rasis are the
reflection of the creative moveable rasis. The common Sanskrit term
is Sthira rasi.
Destructive energy is inherent in the dual rasis but dissolution of
energy is a more apt term. Dual rasis are skillful and prompt learning,
knowledge and dispensation. Dual rasis symbolize that which
transpires between the moveable and fixed rasis. They are also
known as mutable or common rasis. The common Sanskrit term is
Dvisvabhava rasi.
Using the Modality:
The rasi type with the most planets, excluding Rahu and Ketu, will
have a dominant effect on the native's life.
ELEMENT + MODALITY
The element and modality are very important characteristics of
the rasis. From their combination we have the following for the
twelve rasis:
Aries: self in action, creative self, self-awareness.
Taurus: material security, secure in the material world.
Gemini: intellectual knowledge and learning, social learning, relating
knowledge, dispensing information.
Cancer: emotional or spiritual aroused activity and creativity.
Leo: secure self, stable self.
Virgo: practical and physical knowledge, rational learning, dispensing
material (physical) needs.

58

Vault of the Heavens

Libra: social awareness, social activities, intellectual creativity.
Scorpio: emotional or spiritual security, emotional stability.
Sagittarius: self-knowledge, intuitive knowledge and learning,
dispensing self-knowledge.
Capricorn: materially active, awareness of material needs, rational
activity.
Aquarius: security amongst society (requires secure individuality),
social stability.
Pisces: spiritual knowledge and learning, spiritual and emotional
dispensation (compassion).
GUNA AND CASTE
The Guna relates to the activating quality inherent in each rasi.
Tamas is the obstructing qualities. Rajas is the activating quality.
Sattva is the elevating quality. For more, see “Gunas”, Chapter 2,
“Description and Indications of the Planets.” For more on the caste,
see “Caste”, Chapter 2, “Description and Indications of the Planets.”
The combination of Guna and Caste is very important in
understanding a rasi's nature:
Aries: Rajasic Kshatriya: the passionate and active warrior, leader and
organizer; means well, but his passionate, rajasic nature inclines him
towards things that will eventually result in suffering, the outcome of
Rajas.
Taurus: The Rajasic Sudra: easy going, with a taste for the good
things in life, comforts, luxuries and pleasures.
Gemini: The Rajasic Vaishya: the knowledgeable trader who’s rajasic
qualities incline him to know his stuff and product; the pursuit of
knowledge about a current interest.
Cancer: The Sattvic Brahmin: the purity and peace of interior
reflection.
Leo: The Sattvic Kshatriya: the noble organizer, leader and warrior.
Virgo: The Tamasic Sudra: the one that works because circumstances
inclines him to; the karma yogi, who knows there is nothing else he
can do.
Libra: The Rajasic Vaishya: the balanced trader who’s rajasic qualities
have taught him to recognize a bargain when he sees one; one very
capable of fulfilling his desires with poise, balance and equilibrium.

The Rasis

59

Scorpio: The Tamasic Brahmin: the ignorance which must be
transformed through spiritual penance; the dark priest and master of
the occult; the pains of spiritual purification.
Sagittarius: The Sattvic Kshatriya: the noble minister and diplomat
of state and organizational affairs; the master warrior full of
knowledge and learning.
Capricorn: The Tamasic Sudra: caught up in materiality and work
out of fear and ignorance; or the one who knows that all he can do is
what he must do, putting passions aside.
Aquarius: The Tamasic Vaishya: the trader, who after enjoying the
luxuries in life succumbs to the bottle, seeing nothing fulfilling; the
trader who out of despair gives away all his goods, as nothing to him,
and who therefore may find himself.
Pisces: The Sattvic Brahmin; the mystic lost in his contemplation.
RISING WITH HEAD OR TAIL
As the rasis move across the heavens they rise over the eastern
horizon head first (sirshodaya) or tail first (prishtodaya). Rasis rising
with the head accomplish things early, while those rasis rising with
their tail accomplish things later. Classics state that a planet in a rasi
rising with its head gives its effects early in life, late in life if it is in a
rasi rising with its tail, and in the middle in life when in a rasi rising
with both head and tail. Rasis rising with their head are also
considered more auspicious and allow accomplishment with lesser
difficulties. In Prasna, or horary astrology, rasis rising with their heads
indicate success of the query.
DAY / NIGHT STRONG
Rasis that are strong during the day are superior, according to the
text, Jataka Parijata.
BODY SIZE
Rasis with a prominent body do things in noticeable, and usually,
big ways. Rasis with large bodies like to do things in big ways and big
things. Medium bodied rasis do things at a more average pace and
manner. Even bodied rasis are more balanced in their activities. The
long rasi, Taurus, likes things that remain at length. The bulky rasi,
Cancer, tends to hang on to things once their usefulness is over and

60

Vault of the Heavens

therefore gains excess size.
The slender rasi, Scorpio, tends to resist external factors and in a
sense starves itself from what may be available. Scorpio is also the
only hairy rasi. The small hairs on insects make them more sensitive
to vibrations and changes; this holds true for Scorpio who is
considered an insect rasi.
LEGS
Quadrupeds are the most powerful rasis. Biped, or human rasis,
are more adaptable in their nature. Insect rasis have many legs and
though not as powerful are clingy and tenacious. Watery rasis
fluctuate with their emotions. The only footless rasi, Pisces, is more
at drift and at the mercy of the tides of life.
LENGTH
The length of time it takes for rasis to rise varies due to the tilt of
the earth’s axis, therefore some rasis are considered long, some
medium, and others short. This is useful, along with the planets, for
judging the length of things, particularly the length of different body
parts. In the Southern hemisphere these lengths are reversed.
BODY PARTS
The zodiac is known as Kalapurusha, Time personified. The rasis
are the different limbs of Kalapurusha. These play an important part
in medical astrology.
ODD / EVEN
Odd rasis are masculine and initiative in their nature. This makes
them somewhat cruel; they are concerned with becoming and getting
things done.
Even rasis are feminine, gentle, and passive in their nature. They are
concerned with integrating, receiving and relating to the fruits of their
actions, rather than creating them.
Using the Polarity of the Rasis:
The polarity (odd or even) of the rasis, whether masculine or
feminine, helps in determining whether the native is expressing
himself or herself along more masculine or feminine lines. The rasi

The Rasis

61

placement of the Lagna, Sun and Moon become most important in
determining this. Also consider whether more planets, not including
Rahu or Ketu, are in odd signs or even rasis.
DOSHA
The earth rasis, though mixed in constitution, tend more towards
the dosha of their lord. Taurus, ruled by Venus, is more Kapha.
Virgo, ruled by Mercury, is more evenly mixed but leans towards
Vata. Capricorn, ruled by Saturn, is more Vata. See “Doshas,”
Chapter 2, “Description and Indications of the Planets,” for a brief
description of the Doshas
DETERMINING IMPORTANT RASIS
Following are the important Rasis in determining the character:
1. The Sun's Rasi: The native will take on the characteristics of the
rasi in which the Sun is placed. The Sun illuminates the qualities
of the rasi in which it is placed. This is a very important rasi.
2. The Janma Rasi (Moon's Rasi): The mental attitude and general
nature of the native will be influenced by the rasi in which the
Moon is placed. The Moon reflects the qualities of the rasi in
which it is placed.
3. The Lagna: The native will take on the characteristics of the rasi
on the Lagna (the ascendant).
4. The Lagna Lord’s Rasi: The native will also take on the
characteristics of this rasi.
5. The “Full House”: In the event that there is a rasi with many
planets, that rasi will influence the character very strongly,
especially if it contains the Sun, Moon, Lagna or Lagna lord.

62

Vault of the Heavens

Day/
Caste**
Night
Rising
Element
Strong Color
With..
Direction Modality Guna
Rasi*
Kshatriya
1
Tail
Night BloodRajas
Movable
Fire
Aries
red
East
Mesha
Sudra
2
Night White
Tail
Rajas
Fixed
Taurus Earth
Vrishabha South
Vaishya
3
Night Green
Head
Rajas
Dual
Gemini Air
Mithuna West
Brahmin
4
Tail
Night Pale-red
Sattva
Movable
Cancer Water
North
Kataka
Kshatriya
5
Day
SmokyHead
Sattva
Fixed
Fire
Leo
white
East
Simha
Sudra
6
Day
Variegated
Head
Tamas
Dual
Earth
Virgo
South
Kanya
Vaishya
7
Day
Black
Head
Rajas
Movable
Air
Libra
West
Thula
Brahmin
8
Day
ReddishHead
Tamas
Fixed
Scorpio Water
brown
Vrischika North
Kshatriya
9
Tail
Night Golden
Sattva
Dual
Sagittarius Fire
Dhanus East
Sudra
10
Tail
Night Yellow
Tamas
Movable
Capricorn Earth
Makara South
Vaishya
11
Day
DeepHead
Tamas
Fixed
Aquarius Air
brown
Kumbha West
Both
Brahmin
12
Day
Fish-tint
head &
Sattva
Dual
Water
Pisces
tail
North
Meena
* Odd/Even: Odd rasis are masculine and cruel in nature. Even rasis are feminine
and gentle in nature.
** Dosha, Constitutional Humor: Fire rasis are Pitta. Air rasis are Vata. Water rasis
are Kapha. Earth rasis are mixed in constitution.
** Level: Fire rasis rule medium levels, Earth rasis ground level, Air rasis high
levels, and Water rasis rule low levels.

The Rasis

63

Limb of
Kalapurusha

Length

Forest,
Hills

Head

Short

Farms,
Villages
Villages,
Gambling
den

Face
Throat
Shoulders
Upper chest
Arms

Short

Watery/
Insect

Watery
chasm

Breast
Heart

Med.

Large

Quadruped

Mountains

Stomach

Long

Royal

Medium

Biped

Virgin,
Related to
hurricanes

Biped

Waist
Intestines
Lower waist
Kidney, Int.
Sexual Organs

Long

Medium

Pasture
Land
Bazaar,
Merchants
house

Slender/
Hairy

Insect

Holes

Ext. Sexual
Organ

Long

1st half
Biped/
2nd Quad.
1st half
Quadruped
/2nd Watery

Kings
residence,
Barracks

Thighs

Med.

Knees

Med.

Medium

Biped

Water Pot, Calves Ankles
Deep water

Medium

Footless

Water,
Sea

Body

Legs

Residence

Prominent

Quadruped

Long

Quadruped

Even

Biped

Bulky

Even
Large

Watery
forests

Feet

Miscellaneous
Courage,
Related to
kings
Business
community

Med.

Long
Sharp,
Passionate
Royal,
Splendorous,
Adorns an arch

Short
Short

Denotes
resolution

Vault of the Heavens

64

O

D

E

F

Pisces

Aries

Taurus

Gemini

Meena

Mesha

Vrishabha

Mithuna

N

G

Aquarius

Cancer

Kumbha

Kataka

M

H

Capricorn

Leo

Makara

Simha

L

K

J

I

Sagittarius

Scorpio

Libra

Virgo

Dhanus

Vrischika

Thula

Kanya

South India style “Kundali” with glyphs and Sanskrit names of the Rasis.

The Lagna

65

4
The Lagna
The point rising on the eastern horizon at the moment of birth is
known as the Lagna. This is the eastern intersection of the horizon
with the zodiac, as such it attaches the zodiac, and the planets
moving through the zodiac, to the Earth. In fact the word “lagna”
means attached to, fixed on. The lagna is a very important point in
the horoscope; it is the foundation point for determining, amongst all
the potentials indicated by the planets in the zodiac, what will
concretely manifest in the life of the native.
The lagna leaves an innate mark on the native; it stamps them
with their personality and individuality, giving corresponding
evolutionary lessons. The mannerisms and lessons indicated by the
lagna have to do with one’s persona and individuality, not with one’s
soul nature, for that, other considerations are taken. Developing a
healthy sense of individuality is part of the psychological battle that
preludes the true spiritual battle, it may therefore be important to
analyze.
The rasi opposite the lagna is the 7th house, or the descendant.
The evolutionary considerations of the lagna also take into
consideration the rasi opposite the lagna. In fact, the Law of
Opposites states that the extremes of any opposites are the same; for
example: the coldest cold is as burning as the hottest hot, and the
brightest light is as blinding as the darkest dark. This lets us know
that the rasis opposite each other actually have the same meaning
when taken to their furthest extremes. This means that a rasi
expressed at is greatest point of unhealthiness would be similar in
effect to the opposite rasi expressed at its greatest point of
unhealthiness. For a rasi to be expressed at its most evolved manner,
it will also express the most evolved traits of its opposing rasi, as long
as it unable to do so, it has not completed its evolutionary goal.
Generally one will draw partners into their lives, and be attracted to

66

Vault of the Heavens

those, that may assist them in the development indicated by the rasi
of the 7th house.
ARIES LAGNA
The native with Aries lagna is beginning a new cycle of selfactualization. This causes them to be possessed of great impulse,
strength and will of an initiatory type. The Aries native is harnessing
energy for some personal, yet purposeful activity. There is great
energy directed towards finding ones niche in life, but this may put
them into unstable or unmanageable situations, as the consequences
of their actions are rarely considered in advance. The nature is
courageous and passionate. Great emphasis is placed on the use of
the will and directness is a noticeable quality. They consider things
very much from a personal point of view.
The evolutionary goal is to develop the opposing quality of Libra.
Balance must be developed in their activities. They must learn to
consider the price they must pay for their actions and endeavors and
become more pragmatic. This is likely to give partners that are more
pragmatic in their actions, or partners that force a need upon the
native to be more pragmatic.
TAURUS LAGNA
The native with Taurus lagna is in a process of considering the
value of that which their life consists of. They look at themselves,
what they have acquired, and their lives to see if it is worth it, and if
not what needs to be fulfilled in order to make it worthwhile. There
is an emphasis on developing that which they consider of value,
which generally are those things that provide physical security, wellbeing and joy. Though naturally pragmatic, the hardships and
struggles of the world reveals to them what is important to them,
what they get out of what they do, and what they want to identify
with.
The evolutionary goal is to develop the opposing quality of
Scorpio. What is valuable as well is that which there is an emotional
or inner need for. It is recognizing that it is the inner security which

The Lagna

67

things give that is valuable, not merely the material security.
Generally they must suffer some loss and crisis in order to realize
this, which turns them to look where their needs are not being
fulfilled. This generally gives partners that create some crisis in their
lives, or a partner that suffers some crisis, in order to awaken them to
their need for inner security.
GEMINI LAGNA
Gemini as the lagna indicates a curious and experimental
approach to life. Gemini natives tend to be multi-talented, and are in
a state of determining which of their talents to focus and cultivate.
They make their way through life through trial and error,
experimentation as it were, based upon that which they understand
through their active intellects. They are friendly, communicate, and
fair in nature. Most importantly, their intelligence and knowledge
direct their life.
The evolutionary goal is to develop the opposing quality of
Sagittarius. To believe and have faith in those things they do not
understand or are unable to measure with their intellect. They must
also learn to focus their minds and intellects on those things that will
serve some purpose and that are not merely entertaining. This tends
to give partners who are more philosophical or idealistic in nature, or
partners who teach the native faith through their lives, or by
demanding it as a result of not being as rational and explanatory as
the native may desire.
CANCER LAGNA
To Cancer lagna, life and their well being is very dependent upon
their mental attitude. They make inner adjustments to the varying
factors of life and their ability to do so decides the quality of their
life. They feel everything and are sensitive, but the degree of
happiness they have depends upon their ability to feel what they feel
with the understanding that feelings are just a reflection and therefore
a particular feeling should not be considered more preferable than
another. If they are unable to do this, then their feelings may be a

68

Vault of the Heavens

source of suffering in their lives. Their actions are largely motivated
by their needs; the degree that they need to have their needs fulfilled
by external sources determines their happiness. The degree to which
they understand that their needs are responsible for their happiness
or unhappiness, and not the external fulfilling of those needs,
determines their level of happiness and contentment.
The evolutionary goal is to develop the opposing quality of
Capricorn; they must learn that even though they have within them
the ability to fulfill all their needs, that this leads to a corresponding
external fulfillment of the needs as well, and that those activities are
an important part of their development. Along with this they must
also learn that if their needs are being threatened by external factors,
that they still have some work to do with maintaining their own
capacity to fulfill their needs. This generally gives partnerships with
those that are more capable of fulfilling their needs through external
factors, or partners that force the native to develop their ability to
fulfill their needs externally.
LEO LAGNA
Leo as the lagna indicates a secure and confident personality, able
to create at will that which they wish to do or become. They create
their own destiny by following their inspiration, thereby cultivating
the magnetism that attracts to them what they need.
The evolutionary goal is to develop the opposing quality of
Aquarius, detachment from their personalities. They must also learn
that that which they create must be of benefit to others and not just
for self-gratification. In fact, nothing they create will be lasting unless
it has some purpose of benefit or inspiration to others. Aquarius as
the 7th house also causes them to experience their insecurities in the
face of others, and this forces them to make the hard effort to
improve, as well as to develop detachment. The evolutionary need of
Aquarius on the 7th house tends to give partners that either reveal the
native’s insecurities, or a partner that brings out humanitarian
tendencies in the native.

The Lagna

69

VIRGO LAGNA
The actions of the native with Virgo lagna are very much
responsible for what they become, and the well-being they experience
in life. The consciousness of this inclines them to desire to do the
good, right, and useful thing. At times they may feel overwhelmed
and overburdened by all that must be done and this may leave them
feeling a lack of hope for improved circumstances.
The evolutionary goal is to develop the opposing quality of Pisces.
The native must learn that all that they do has not only a mundane or
practical value, but also a spiritual value and that when all is done,
that is all there is. They must learn to surrender the fruits of what
they do in order to grow spiritually. Virgo lagna is at best a karma
yogi. Partnerships tend to be with devotional, nonchalant, or carefree
types, or with those that somehow teach the native these qualities.
LIBRA LAGNA
The native with Libra lagna is aware of the give and take in life,
that all things have a price. This gives them a pragmatic ability to pay
only what they can afford for what they want in life or for what they
want to do. By payment what is meant is that which they will have to
do, give up, etc., in order to fulfill their desire, ambition or need. This
makes Libra the most balanced lagna as life gets out of balance when
we try to pay more for something than we can afford.
The evolutionary goal is to develop the opposing sign of Aries.
Aries thinks and acts first and worries about the consequences later.
This trait the Libra needs to develop because balance is not always
maintained in the moment, so if something appears unbalanced or
unfair at the moment, it is only to create balance for the past, or to
give room for balance to be created in the future. Libra needs to
develop the quality of initiative, force and impulse when necessary.
Partnerships tend to be with independent, self-willed types, or with
partners that somehow help the native express their individuality and
personal impulses.

70

Vault of the Heavens

SCORPIO LAGNA
The native with Scorpio lagna is strengthening any personality
weaknesses that may have occurred through lack of development in
the past as well as working out many limiting results of their karmas.
This makes for a highly vulnerable personality that is so aware of its
every weakness. The need to develop these undeveloped areas makes
for a generally unstable, crisis orientated, and at times, greatly pained
personality. The natives tend to be introverted or self-absorbed,
looking for some strength and security in their tumultuous selves.
The natives are very sensitive as long as there is any attachment left
in their personalities. At best they are able to make incredible growth
in their lives as they have so much strength and energy available to
overcome their liabilities.
The evolutionary goal is to develop the opposing sign of Taurus.
Scorpio needs to develop stability, and consistency in their lives with
regards to those things that they find worthwhile. The concrete
things they learn to develop and maintain are a reflection of their
own inner security and recognized worth. Partnerships tend to be
with those that are more practical, grounded or secure, with those
that somehow teach the native these things, or to those whom the
native by attaching themselves to finds some worthiness in their
activities and themselves. There is also the need to be validated by
their partners, if they themselves recognize their value, then their
partners will do so as well. If they themselves do not recognize their
innate value, then their partners are likely to devalue them, but this
also gives the opportunity for the native to validate himself or herself.
SAGITTARIUS LAGNA
The native with Sagittarius lagna guides their life through some
belief, philosophy, religion or law. They are very apt to do what they
believe and their entire identities are wrapped around their ideals.
They aspire to have purpose and meaning in life.
The evolutionary goal is to develop the opposing sign of Gemini.
The Sagittarius native must learn to test their ideals, beliefs, etc, and
be flexible where necessary. In other words they need to investigate

The Lagna

71

what they believe in to test and see if it really measures up and works.
The native also needs to learn to have fun and play; that not
everything has to have some grand purpose. Partnerships tend to be
with more curious, experimental, and playful types, or with those
who bring out these qualities in the native.
CAPRICORN LAGNA
The native with Capricorn lagna has a life of activities and rewards
that is based upon their previous karmas. Capricorn is the natural 10th
house of the zodiac, the house of greatest activity as well as the most
powerful house. But Capricorn is an even sign, meaning its nature is
receptive, not initiative. This is because Capricorn is receptive to the
effects of the actions taken previously, and the accumulation of
previous actions is the most powerful activating force there is. The
native with Capricorn lagna has a sense of responsibility towards
their actions that may cause them a lot of worry, attachment and
suffering because they have a tendency to feel immediately
responsible for something that is far more powerful than any
momentary use of their will. They will always fall short of their
expectations and suffer from insecurities as long as they see
themselves as the doer and responsible right now for what is. On the
other hand if they are performing well, they may attach and identify
with the results of their works and this may give rise to pride, but
then the lagna lord Saturn will force them humbly to their knees. It is
detachment from the fruits of their works that is their key to
happiness. The fruits are not only the material rewards, but also the
reward of what others think about them for their actions, and what
the native thinks about themselves due to their actions.
The evolutionary goal is to develop the opposing qualities of
Cancer. While being detached, the Capricorn native must feel, and be
sensitive. They must learn to change as their needs and feelings
require, and not just change to meet the needs of one’s duty. Most
importantly they must learn how expectations that their inner needs
be met by externals creates unhappiness, and that they must fulfill
these needs within themselves. Partnerships will be with those much

72

Vault of the Heavens

more overtly sensitive and emotional, or with those that bring the
native’s feelings to their attention. Relationships very much serve to
make them aware of their sensitivity and needs.
AQUARIUS LAGNA
The native with Aquarius lagna is becoming individualized. As the
soul travels from stone, to plant, to animal and then to human
existence it is still not ready to return to Spirit. Not until the
consciousness becomes individualized is it ready to return home.
Being individualized is to be aware of one’s differences, similarities,
pluses and minuses and accept them completely. This is to be
psychologically healthy. This is what occurs in Aquarius, which,
lorded by Saturn, gives this through struggles that allow one to see
who they really are and forces them to accept it. The native will
therefore have personal insecurities that are a result of an acute
awareness of their separateness and a great awareness of their
differences. Through detachment the native learns how to let go of
any insecurities that cause them to act like they are more or different
than they are, or that prevent them from doing the things they are
inspired to. Accepting themselves as they are is an important factor
to their well-being and happiness.
The evolutionary goal is to develop the qualities of the opposing
sign, Leo. The Aquarius native must learn to see the uniqueness of
their personality. That in standing as an individual they are playing
the role offered to them in this incarnation. Doing this with
detachment allows them to fully enjoy their lives and be free from the
psychological suffering that Saturn, as the lagna lord, may give.
Partnerships tend to be with those that support the native’s
individuality, or with more dynamic, magnetic, or self-centered
people that help the native to recognize their own individuality when
confronted by their partner’s.
PISCES LAGNA
Pisces is the last sign of the zodiac and according to Brihat
Parashara Hora Sastra, Pisces “denotes resolution.” The native with

The Lagna

73

Pisces lagna is in a completion phase this lifetime; this is not a
completion phase in respect to their soul’s journey, but in respect to
who they are, and what their lives consist of. There is therefore a lack
of forward focus or direction of what to do in life, as what comes
into the life is coming largely for the purpose of completing the
karmas with the thing in question. This gives less opportunity to
“take the ball and run with it.” This is what is symbolized by the
Piscine symbol of “two fishes swimming in opposite directions,” they
never know what to hold onto or what to let go of. Pisces is mutable,
flexible, accepting and capable of surrender.
The evolutionary goal is to develop the opposing qualities of
Virgo. The Pisces native must learn the importance of work and
improvement for the benefit of the next cycle of growth. Though the
current cycle is coming to a close, the works done in this lifetime will
influence the next or afterlife. Therefore the native must learn to do
their best with that which comes into life as their duty. Not that it
will change what is going to happen now, or extend the karmas with
those things they are completing, but because it will allow them to
develop skills, karmas, and qualities that will be of use in another
time. Partnerships tend to be with those that are more concerned
with their works and activities, or with those that motivate the native
to be more dutiful and concerned.
Note: To understand the full influence of any lagna a study of the
house lords, as given in the chapter, “House Lords”, is essential.
These effects, though given for the lagna, may also be put to use
when analyzing any house:
1. The native will express the qualities of the rasi in the area of life
that the house in question represents.
2. The native will also be developing the opposing sign in respect to
the original house in question.

Vault of the Heavens

74

North Style Chart

7

4


6


8
9


10

5


11

3

2


12

1

In the North Indian style chart the diamond at the top center is always the
first house. The Houses go counter clockwise; the Rasis are indicated by
the numbers, 1 for Aries, 2 for Taurus, etc. Sanskrit numerals are also
shown. In the South Indian style chart, the first house is marked with a line
and the houses continue in a clockwise direction. The rasis are always fixed
and therefore generally left unmarked. Both charts shown have Leo as the
first house. A chart similar to the North Indian chart was used in the West
until recent years. Both styles of charts have their advantages.

South Style Chart

Planetary Relationships

75

5
Planetary Relationships
Planets due to their varying characteristics and traits form
particular relationships with each other. Each planet has the other
planets as either a friend, enemy or neutral. These relationships are
considered in two ways. Firstly, the planets have natural relationships
with each other due to their natures. Secondly they have temporal
relationships due to their positions in the horoscope. These two types
of relationships are combined and what is called a compound
relationship is formed. The relationships between the planets are
important for understanding the interaction of the planets with each
other.
NATURAL RELATIONSHIPS
The lords of the 2nd, 12th, 5th, 9th, 4th, and 8th from a particular
planet's Moolatrikona rasi, and the lord of that planet's
exaltation rasi are its friends. Others are its enemies. If a planet,
due to ruling two rasis, becomesboth a friend and an enemy of
a particular planet, then it is regarded as neutral to that
particular planet. The Moon, however, has no enemies.
The following table lists the natural relationships of the planets:
Friends

Neutrals

Enemies

Moon, Mars, Jupiter
Mercury
Venus, Saturn
Sun:
Sun, Mercury Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn
none
Moon:
Venus, Saturn
Mercury
Mars: Sun, Moon, Jupiter
Sun,
Venus
Mars,
Jupiter,
Saturn
Moon
Mercury:
Saturn
Mercury, Venus
Jupiter: Sun, Moon, Mars
Mercury, Saturn
Mars, Jupiter
Sun, Moon
Venus:
Jupiter
Sun, Moon, Mars
Saturn: Mercury, Venus

76

Vault of the Heavens

It will be seen that friendship or enmity is not always mutual
between planets. Just as in human relationships, one planet may be
helpful towards, and consider another planet as its friend, without
having its sentiments returned.
The nature of a planet that is a friend of another, improves,
assists, or strengthens the natural characteristics of the planet to
which it is a friend. The nature of a planet that is an enemy of
another, weakens, frustrates, or harms the natural characteristics of
the planet to which it is an enemy. If, however, one planet is a friend
to another but has characteristics that are contrary to the
characteristics of the other he will not strengthen that characteristic.
For example, Saturn is a friend of Venus, if he influences Venus her
characteristic of lust will become strengthened; Venus’s quality of
social enjoyment, on the other hand, will be harmed by Saturn’s
quality of isolation.
A good exercise is to take each planet and think of how the nature
of its friends improves its nature, and how the nature of its enemies
weakens its nature.
RAHU’S AND KETU’S RELATIONSHIPS
There are different opinions regarding which planets are friendly
or inimical to Rahu and Ketu. Some astrologers feel that since Rahu
and Ketu are shadowy in nature they do not have relationships as do
the other planets; that their relationships are dependent upon the
relationship of the lord of the rasi in which they are placed to the
other planets. I myself prefer this view, except for as stated in Satya
Jatakam:
“Rahu and Ketu are the enemies of the Sun and the Moon.”
This makes the most sense to me, as in Vedic myth, the demon
who became Rahu and Ketu was discovered by the Sun and the
Moon when he was disguised as a deva with the intent of gaining the
Amrita (nectar of immortality) during the Churning of the Ocean.

Planetary Relationships

77

This resulted in his decapitation, and the birth of Rahu from his head
and Ketu from his body. Rahu and Ketu therefore have a special
enmity with the Sun and Moon and have been “swallowing” them
during eclipses ever since.
To determine if a planet is friendly to Rahu or Ketu, simply take
the planet that rules the rasi in which Rahu or Ketu is placed and see
if that planet is a friend or enemy of the planet in question. If you
want to see if Rahu or Ketu is a friend of a planet, check the
friendship or otherwise of their lord with the planet in question. Do
not forget that the Sun and Moon have mutual enmity with Rahu and
Ketu.
TEMPORARY RELATIONSHIPS
The planet posited in the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 10th, 11th and 12th from
another becomes a mutual friend. Otherwise there is enmity.
The easy way to remember this is “three in front, three behind;”
the planets in the three houses in front of a planet as well as the
planets in the three houses behind it are its friends. This is illustrated
in the following chart:
Friend
Friend

Friend

Planet

Friend
Friend
Friend

Temporal relationship, by itself, is not considered as important as the
natural relationship.

78

Vault of the Heavens

COMPOUND RELATIONSHIPS
The natural and temporal relationships between any two planets
should be combined to determine their final, compound relationship
as listed below:
Friend + Friend = Great Friend
Friend + Neutral = Friend
Enemy + Friend = Neutral
Enemy + Neutral = Enemy
Enemy + Enemy = Great Enemy
It is this compound relationship between a planet and the ruler of
the rasi in which the planet is placed that is used to determine the
dignity of a planet as per the next chapter.
The temporal relationship is fully applicable to Rahu and Ketu.
When you figure their compound relationship make sure you use the
temporal relationship between them and the planet in question, and
not the temporal relationship between their lord and the planet in
question.
Following are some important points regarding the principle of
planetary friendships:
1. The nature of planets that are friendly to another improve or
strengthen the natural qualities of the planet if they aspect or
conjoin it. The planet then has a greater capacity to fulfill its
indications within the horoscope unless the friend in question has
contrary indications to fulfill.
2. The nature of planets that are enemies to another planet weaken
the natural qualities of the planet if they aspect or conjoin it. The
planet then has a lesser capacity to fulfill its indications within the
horoscope unless the enemy in question has similar indications to
fulfill.

Planetary Relationships

79

Note: For determining the auspicious or inauspicious effects of a
planet, the aspects and conjunction of planets, whether they are
benefics or malefic is generally of greater importance than that of
friendship or enmity. The aspects and conjunctions of friends and
enemies is helpful in determining what planets are helpful or harmful
to the planet’s expression of its natural qualities. For example, Mars
aspecting the Sun as a friend inclines the Sun towards greater courage
and independence, but as a malefic, Mars aspecting the Sun will
indicated damage to the indications of the Sun due to fire, accident,
injury, etc.
RELATIONSHIPS IN DASA INTERPRETATION
The antardasa of a planet that is friendly to the dasa lord gives
better results and is smoother than the antardasa of a planet that is an
enemy of the dasa lord, all else being considered the same:
1. The friendly antardasa lord assists the dasa lord in its goals as
indicated in the horoscope. The inimical antardasa lord frustrates
the goals of the dasa lord.
2. The nature of the dasa lord is influenced by the nature of the
antardasa lord, in a supportive or diminishing capacity, depending
upon the antardasa lord being a friend or enemy of the dasa lord.
3. The dasa and antardasa of planets that are friendly towards each
other promotes mental peace. The dasa and antardasa of planets
that are inimical to each other create division within the self and
mental turmoil.

80

Vault of the Heavens

Woodcut print illustrating the allocatio of the body parts to the Rasis.

Dignities

81

6
Dignities
Now that the planets and the rasis have been described, we can
begin an examination of the interaction of these two factors. The
planets, as they move through their orbits, pass through the different
rasis. Each rasi may be considered as a different environment
through which the planet is moving. Just as one person may be at his
best in a hot environment and at his worst in a cold environment, the
planets are stronger and perform better in some rasis than others.
This relationship of the planet to the rasi in which it is placed is
known as the planet's dignity.
The different dignities are given below as taken from the classical
works with some additional notation in order to facilitate the students
understanding:
OWN RASI
The planets own rasi is the rasi that the planet rules as given in
Chapter 2, “Description and Indications of the Planets.” A planet in
its own rasi (also known as own house) is very strong in its pure, raw
nature. All the qualities of the planet will be exhibited to a high
degree. A planet in its own sign is capable of yielding 50% auspicious
results.
MOOLATRIKONA
For all the planets, except the Moon and Mercury, the
moolatrikona position is in the masculine rasi that the planet owns.
Following are the moolatrikona positions of the planets:
Sun: 0-20 degrees Leo.
Moon: 3-30 degrees Taurus.
Mars: 0-12 degrees Aries.
Mercury: 15-20 degrees Virgo.

82

Vault of the Heavens

Jupiter: 0-10 degrees Sagittarius.
Venus: 0-15 degrees Libra.
Saturn: 0-20 degrees Aquarius.
Moolatrikona means, “root trine”. A planet in its moolatrikona is
more rooted, fortunate and powerful in its nature than a planet in its
own rasi. A planet in moolatrikona is more focused towards a definite
goal than if it were in its own rasi. A planet in Moolatrikona is
capable of producing 75% auspicious results.
EXALTATION
Each planet has an exaltation rasi. Within the exaltation rasi there
is a degree of deep exaltation wherein the planet is expressed at its
absolute finest. An exalted planet is extremely strong in its nature and
also refined to a much more perfected, pure and productive state. A
planet in exaltation is capable of producing 100% auspicious results.
The exaltation positions have been given earlier but are reproduced
here for ease of access:
Sun- exalted in Aries; deep exaltation is 10 degrees Aries.
Moon- exalted from 0-3 degrees Taurus; deep exaltation is 3 degrees
Taurus.
Mars- exalted in Capricorn; deep exaltation is 28 degrees Capricorn.
Mercury- exalted from 0-15 degrees Virgo; deep exaltation is 15
degrees Virgo.
Jupiter- exalted in Cancer; deep exaltation is 5 degrees Cancer.
Venus- exalted in Pisces; deep exaltation is 27 degrees Pisces.
Saturn- exalted in Libra; deep exaltation is 20 degrees Libra.
DEBILITATION
A planet is considered debilitated in the rasi opposite, or 7th, from
its exaltation. It is in deep debilitation when in the degree opposite its
deep exaltation degree. A planet in debilitation is very weak in its
nature and exhibits none of its natural beneficial or useful
characteristics. A planet in debilitation is not capable of producing

Dignities

83

any auspicious results.
OTHER DIGNITIES
Other dignities are based upon the friendship or enmity of a
planet with the lord of the rasi in which the planet is placed:
Great Friend’s Rasi: A planet in a great friend’s rasi operates in a
useful manner, but one that is not 100% true to its own nature. The
realm in which it is operating is a bit foreign. Even when at your best
friend’s house there are still some things you do differently than
when you are at your own place, so it is with a planet. A planet in a
great friend’s rasi is capable of producing 22/60 (36.66%) auspicious
results.
Friend’s Rasi: A planet in a friend’s rasi is similar to a planet in great
friend’s rasi but not quite as strong or useful. A planet in a friend’s
rasi is capable of producing 25% auspicious results.
Neutral’s Rasi: A planet placed in a neutral’s rasi is out of sync with
its natural qualities but not to the extent of being damaged. A planet
in a neutral’s rasi is capable of producing 1/8 (12½ %) auspicious
results.
Enemy’s Rasi: A planet in its enemy’s rasi is out of tune and
operating with a handicap. It is not able to operate in its natural
manner. A planet in an enemy’s rasi is capable of producing 1/15
(6.66%) auspicious results.
Great Enemy’s Rasi: A planet in its great enemy’s rasi is similar, but
worse, than in its enemy’s rasi. A planet in a great enemy’s rasi is
capable of producing only 3.33% (1/30) auspicious results.
DIGNITIES CLASSIFIED
In order from best to worse, the dignities are as follows: 1Exaltation, 2- Moolatrikona, 3- Own Rasi, 4- Great Friend’s Rasi, 5-

84

Vault of the Heavens

Friend’s Rasi, 6- Neutral’s Rasi, 7- Enemy’s Rasi, 8- Great Enemy’s
Rasi, 9- Debilitation. A planet is auspicious in the first five places, it is
neither auspicious nor inauspicious in the sixth place (Neutral’s
house). It is inauspicious in the last three places.
The percentages given for the planet’s capacity to give auspicious
effects are helpful in analyzing the degree of benefic or malefic
influence of a benefic or malefic conjunction, or rasi aspect. The
conjunction or rasi aspect of a benefic is as beneficial as the
percentage of auspicious results. The conjunction or rasi aspect of a
malefic is as malefic as the percentage of auspicious results subtracted
from 100%. A malefic in exaltation is always a helpful factor when it
lends its conjunction or rasi aspect; a benefic in debilitation is always
harmful when it does so. The conjunctions and rasi aspects of
malefics are not harmful when they are in their own rasi, and they are
even helpful when in their moolatrikona.
The percentage of auspicious results is not an accurate gauge of
how much good a planet may give. To accurately determine the full
extent of auspicious or inauspicious effects a planet will produce is a
much more complex matter, of which dignity is only one factor.
RAHU’S AND KETU’S DIGNITIES
There is a lot of controversy regarding Rahu’s and Ketu’s own,
exaltation, debilitation, and moolatrikona rasis. The best guidelines
are as given in Laghu Parashari, sloka 13:
“Rahu and Ketu, despite their dignity, give good or bad results according to their
position or association.”
And as stated in Satya Jatakam:
“Rahu and Ketu give the results of the planets conjoined with them or aspecting
them. Their results depend upon the lord of the rasi and navamsa in which they are
placed.”

Dignities

85

The most general consensus on the dignities of Rahu and Ketu is
as follows:
Rahu: Exalted in Taurus, Moolatrikona in Gemini, Own Rasi in
Aquarius, and Debilitated in Scorpio.
Ketu: Exalted in Scorpio, Moolatrikona in Sagittarius, Own Rasi in
Scorpio (some say Leo), and Debilitated in Taurus.
Some, however, consider Rahu’s Own Rasi to be Virgo, and Ketu’s
Own Rasi to be Pisces.
In general Rahu is more auspicious in the rasis of Mercury:
Gemini and Virgo. Ketu is more auspicious in the rasis of Jupiter:
Sagittarius and Pisces. Rahu's nature becomes strong in the native's
character when in Aquarius, and Ketu's nature becomes strong in the
native's character when in Leo or Scorpio. In Taurus, Rahu's nature
becomes strong, but lends itself towards greater fulfillment. In
Scorpio, Ketu's nature becomes strong, though less hindering.
Relying on the dignity of Rahu and Ketu is a risky prospect. They
do not seem to give consistent results due to their dignities, as do the
other planets. The best rule is to follow the rules given above from
Laghu Parashari and Satya Jatakam. These rules are particularly
important when interpreting the dasas of Rahu and Ketu. During
their dasas, Rahu and Ketu give the results of the lord of the rasi and
navamsa they are placed in.
There has always been a lot of controversy about Rahu and Ketu,
and there is a tendency for astrologers to attempt to define them like
the other planets, though they have no actual physical form like the
other planets. Classical texts, however, do not give a lot of definitions
for Rahu and Ketu. It appears to me that following the model of the
classical texts is wisest, attempting to define the indefinable is
perhaps foolish. In my opinion the best we can do is attempt to
understand Rahu and Ketu's purpose; if we can understand their
purpose it is more likely that we can predict their effects.

86

Vault of the Heavens

CANCELLATION OF DEBILITATION
There are certain factors under which a debilitated planet
becomes very significant and capable of giving excellent results. One
of these is cancellation of debility, or Neechabhanga Raja Yoga
(abatement of debilitation, making one a king). A planet with
cancellation of debilitation may operate better than an exalted planet
and hold greater importance to the individual's life, if the cancellation
factors are strong. The planet will however, still have certain innate
weaknesses and the organs ruled by the planet will remain genetically
weak. The planet with cancellation of debilitation will also not
operate in a manner completely true to its own nature. A debilitated
planet with cancellation of debilitation, though capable of giving
good effects, still indicates some important lessons to learn.
Following are the Neechabhanga Raja Yogas, listed in approximate
order from the most significant to the least significant:
1. When the planet which rules the rasi in which the debilitated
planet is placed, is on an angle from the Lagna or the Moon.
2. When the planet which is exalted in the rasi in which the
debilitated planet is placed, is on an angle from the Lagna or the
Moon.
3. When the lord of the rasi in which the debilitated planet is
exalted, is on an angle from the Lagna or the Moon.
4. When the debilitated planet is in its exalted navamsa.
5. When the debilitated planet is in its own navamsa.
6. When the debilitated planet is conjoined with an exalted planet.
7. When the debilitated planet is conjoined with its lord.
8. When the debilitated planet and its lord have exchanged rasis.
9. When the lord of the planet's debilitation rasi and the lord of its
exaltation rasi are conjoined, or on angles from each other.
10. When two debilitated planets aspect each other.
11. When the debilitated planet is on an angle from the Lagna or the
Moon.
12. When the lord of the debilitated planet aspects the debilitated
planet.

Dignities

87

13. When the debilitated planet aspects its lord.
14. When the debilitated planet is retrograde.
The more cancellation factors present, the stronger and more
auspicious the planet becomes. The greater the strength of the factor
causing the cancellation the more significant the Neechabhanga Raja
Yoga becomes.
The periods of debilitated planets, even with cancellation of
debilitation, cause difficulty, particularly in respect to health, and the
natural significations of the planet. During the periods of these
debilitated planets the lessons indicated by the debilitation comes to
one's attention, and the cancellation allows one to overcome them.
The auspicious results of debilitated planets forming Neechabhanga
Raja Yogas manifest particularly during the periods of the planets
causing the cancellation.
In the event that the debilitated planet is in exaltation or own rasi
in the navamsa, the first half of its period will be difficult, but the
second half will be productive and successful
EFFECTS OF EXALTED AND DEBILITATED PLANETS
Following is a brief explanation of the results of the planets in
exaltation and debilitation:
Sun
Another name for Aries is Visva. Visva is God as the soul acting
through the physical body; it is the true sustainer of the body. When
the Sun is exalted, the native is strong in character as a result of the
intuitive awareness of this creative life energy. The exalted Sun gives
strength and will to the character, self assurance, steadfastness,
independence and a strong vitality.
When the Sun is debilitated the many changing and unsteady
things in life having a correlative effect on the native resulting in the
native themselves lacking steadfastness in will and activities. Selfassurance is lost, and the native easily succumbs to desires and social
trends instead of focusing on his inspirations. That which the

88

Vault of the Heavens

debilitated Sun influences in the horoscope is disrupted due to the
native’s lack of consistency, steadfastness and inspiration.
If the debilitated Sun has its debilitation cancelled, the native
develops a strong sense of self that includes an awareness of the unity
underlying all life and the balance inherent in all activity. The fiery
nature of the Sun, however, will not be expressed.
Moon
If the Moon is exalted, the native is emotionally grounded and
secure. The native understands that their thoughts, and the ideas they
have about how things should be, are largely responsible for how
they feel. The result is that they are more inclined to be responsible
for their feelings and attitudes, and that these are likely to be based
upon a balanced assessment of their lives.
If the Moon is debilitated, the mind and emotions are taken to the
deepest, most turbulent levels of the psyche. This creates fears,
paranoia, insecurities, hypersensitivity, secretiveness, and possible
psychic difficulties. How the native feels is not dependent upon a
balanced assessment of their lives, and they may suffer from
intangible fears and anxieties. That which the debilitated Moon
influences in the horoscope is disrupted due to the native’s fears and
due to the native not having their needs and expectations met.
If the debilitated Moon has its debilitation cancelled, the native is
insightful and sensitive, yet grounded and secure. Fears and worries
are introverted and the native matures emotionally.
Mars
If Mars is exalted, the native’s will and strength are strong and
controlled. The native has courage, stamina, and perseverance, as well
as efficient use of their energy. That which exalted Mars affects in the
horoscope progresses in the face of all odds due to the native’s
strength of will in making what he thinks should be, or what he wants
to be, come to pass.
If Mars is debilitated, the native is uncomfortable with pain and
exertion. They may be weak willed, timid, easily overcome and

Dignities

89

unreasonably fearful. That which a debilitated Mars affects in the
horoscope falls apart due to the native’s inability to make something
be the way they think it should be, or the way they want it to be. This
may appear as sensitivity or humility, but this is not true humility,
because it is due to indifference, laziness or a lack of assertiveness.
If debilitated Mars has its debilitation cancelled, the native’s will
and strength to make what they think should be, or what they want
to be, becomes well developed. However, they do this with an
element of detachment, realizing that things will be just as well even
if they do not succeed. The aggressiveness and fiery qualities of Mars
will be absent, and the native will have greater caution and prudence
than he would be if Mars were in a higher dignity.
Mercury
If Mercury is exalted, the rational mind is precise, practical,
efficient and inventive. The native is very capable in the management
of their affairs and capable of prioritizing their duties in an efficient
manner that reduces stress and worry. There is a high discriminative
capacity. Communication is clear and intelligent, providing the
capacity to establish proper boundaries and maintain fairness in all
associations.
If Mercury is debilitated, the native has a low capacity to establish,
maintain and live in accordance with any dictates that are important
for maintaining fairness in worldly affairs. There is less sense of order
and structure to the mental processes; note taking, paperwork, and
memorizing details are thrown to the winds, or rather dropped in the
ocean. The native’s capacity to manage their many affairs is low, and
disorganization and lack of prioritizing results in stress and feelings of
being overwhelmed.
If debilitated Mercury has its debilitation cancelled, the mental
faculties are more intuitively inclined and there is a heightened
capacity for grasping concepts. Communicating clearly, maintaining
boundaries, note taking, attention to details, etc. will generally still be
difficult.

90

Vault of the Heavens

Jupiter
If Jupiter is exalted, the native is happy, optimistic, kind, and
forgiving. The native also feels innately that their life has purpose and
meaning.
If Jupiter is debilitated, there is a desire to find something of
lasting meaning in the material world; this not being found results in
feelings of purposelessness, lack of faith and hope. That which a
debilitated Jupiter affects in the horoscope suffers due to a lack of
the faith necessary to get through hardships, and also due to giving
up because no grand purpose is seen in continuing.
If debilitated Jupiter has its debilitation cancelled, the native finds
that meaning and purpose in life can come from the simple things.
Venus
If Venus is exalted, the native has the capacity for maintaining
mutual respect, from which love grows, in all their relationships.
There is great energy for devotion and creating things of great and
refined beauty. The desire nature is pure and though the native will
be passionate, their passions will be controlled and idealistic. Most
significantly, the native will have the ability to determine the worth
and value of their actions and desires when it comes to making
important decisions. They are, therefore, able to choose an option
with the knowledge that they chose the one of greatest worth,
confidently and with no regrets.
If Venus is debilitated, mutual respect and appreciation becomes
conditional and there is difficulty in maintaining mutual respect in
human relations. The native will readily see the flaws in anything of
beauty, which also makes it difficult for them to create anything of
beauty. Sexual imbalances will be noted, from possible frigidity to
adulterous affairs. Most importantly the native will lack proper
judgment in making decisions that affect their happiness and
pleasure, resulting in limiting conditions and unhappiness.
If debilitated Venus has its debilitation cancelled, mutual respect is
established with the help of formalities. The native becomes capable
of learning principles and laws that help them make the choices that

Dignities

91

result in their greatest happiness.
Saturn
If Saturn is exalted, the native is focused and determined. Very
strong attachment to their goals helps them succeed. Exalted Saturn
may appear arrogant, but this is not an arrogance that stems from
insecurity, it is rather the result of concentrating and focusing on a
desired end. That which exalted Saturn affects in the horoscope
progresses due to the native’s perseverance, and attachment to.
If Saturn is debilitated, the native’s focus and determination is
weak, they are not secure in their activities. There is rarely the
perseverance necessary to achieve the desired end; small mistakes and
obstacles loom large. Debilitated Saturn may appear humble, but it is
not truly humble, but rather an inability to manifest determination.
That which debilitated Saturn affects in the horoscope suffers due to
negligence, and indifference.
If debilitated Saturn has its debilitation cancelled, the native
develops focus and determination as well as detachment and sincere
humility.
Rahu
If Rahu is exalted the native is more grounded and less
compulsive in fulfilling the desires indicated by the house in which
Rahu is placed.
If Rahu is debilitated the native is easily overwhelmed and
disappointed as they are searching for something barely felt and
intangible. Even they are not clear on what it is which they seek. This
lends towards compulsions and disappointments.
If Rahu has its debilitation cancelled the native has the capacity to
go within and develop an interior life that provides them with
security. This usually only comes after great struggles and
disappointments, but the native has no choice but to learn this.
Ketu
If Ketu is exalted the native has great emotional strength and

92

Vault of the Heavens

fortitude. There is the capacity for insights and clearly knowing ones
needs.
If Ketu is debilitated the native is unable to find security in the
material world, though he will make half-hearted attempts to find this
and remain frustrated.
If Ketu has its debilitation cancelled, the native is better able to
become free of material attachments and needs. This comes after
great struggle, for overcoming the debilitation of the nodes is a very
arduous task.
During the periods of debilitated planets which have cancellation of
debilitation, the native will have events and challenges in life that
teach him to overcome the weaknesses indicated by the debilitated
planet.

Deeptaadi Avasthas

93

7
Deeptaadi-Avasthas
Classical authors have explained the effects of a planet’s position
in several ways. One of the ways that they have done so is known as
the Avastha, or state of a planet. There are different types, or groups,
of Avasthas, some requiring specific calculations and others based
merely on the dignity of the planet. In this chapter we will consider
Deeptaadi-Avasthas, which are indicative of the physical-mental
states of the planets. Deeptaadi means Deepta, etc.; these Avasthas
are so named because the first avastha in this group is called Deepta.
Deeptaadi-Avasthas describe how one experiences the effects of a
planet; physically, meaning the bodily vigor as well as the indications
of the planet in question; as well as mentally, meaning one’s attitude
and feelings about the indications of the planet. Following are the 12
Deeptaadi-Avasthas:
DEEPTA- RADIANT
A planet is radiant when in exaltation.
SVASTHA- CONFIDENT
A planet is confident when in its own rasi.
MUDITA- REJOICING
A planet is rejoicing when in a great friend’s rasi.
SHANTA- QUIESCENT
A planet is quiescent, or serene, when in a friend’s rasi.
DINA- SCARCE
A planet is scarce, when in a neutral’s rasi.

94

Vault of the Heavens

DUKHITA- MISERABLE
A planet is miserable when in an enemy’s rasi.
KHALA- CRUEL
A planet suffers cruelty when in a great enemy’s rasi.
BHITA- ALARMED
A planet is alarmed when in debilitation.
When a planet is in debilitation it has hit rock bottom. At that
point it is in an alarmed condition because it causes so much trouble
that the corresponding issues must be dealt with.
Debilitated planets are called Neecha in Sanskrit, which means
low, depressed, mean. Debilitated planets may cause meanness in
one’s life, either as the doer or the recipient.
VIKALA- MUTILATED
A planet is mutilated when associated with a malefic.
The indications of a planet in Vikala Avastha will suffer, or be
damaged, due to the malefic with them.
NIPEEDITA- OPPRESSED
A planet is oppressed when overcome in planetary war.
Planetary war occurs when two planets are in conjunction within
one degree. The planet that is further north is the victor. Only the
“star” planets; Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn enter into
planetary war.
To determine which planet is further north, check the latitude or
declination in your astrology software, or ephemeris.
A planet that looses in planetary war, looses some of his strength
which is taken by his vanquisher. The amount of strength lost is the
difference between the strengths of the two planets. This amount is
very accurately determined when calculating the Shad Bala (six-fold
strength) of the planets and is known as Yuddha Bala (strength from
fighting). There are several practical applications of planetary war:

Deeptaadi Avasthas

95

1. The indications and traits of the conquered planet suffer on
account of there being a greater emphasis on the indications and
traits of the vanquishing planet.
2. There is less emphasis on the houses ruled by the loosing planet;
emphasis instead being placed upon the houses ruled by the
vanquishing planet.
3. A malefic planet overcome in planetary war by a benefic looses a
great deal of its capacity to do ill; the benefic conqueror uses the
strength of the malefic for auspiciousness instead.
4. A benefic planet overcome in planetary war by a malefic looses
most of its capacity for auspiciousness; the malefic uses the
strength of the benefic to do ill.
5. If another malefic overcomes a malefic in planetary war, there
will be a great capacity for ill through the conquering planet.
Though the vanquished malefic is unable to be as malefic as per
his own nature, the conquering malefic becomes very malefic as
per its own nature.
6. When a benefic is overcome in planetary war by another benefic,
the vanquished benefic is not as benefic as per his own nature;
the conquering benefic becomes more benefic as per its own
nature.
7. In regards to health, planetary war increases the malefic nature of
an illness, especially if a malefic is involved. This is so because a
planet overcome in planetary war is an indicator of poor health
relative to that planet.
SHAKTA- POWERFUL
A planet is powerful when retrograde.
The planets outside Earth’s orbit, namely Mars, Jupiter and
Saturn, are retrograde when they are opposite, or near opposite, the
Sun. When one of these planets is opposite the Sun, Earth is between
it and the Sun. At this point the planet is the closest to Earth, its rays,
therefore, are the brightest and it becomes powerful in its own
nature.

Vault of the Heavens

96

Sa5

Ju5

Earth

Ma5

Ma

Ju

Sun

Closest to Earth when Retrograde.

Sa

Furthest from Earth when Direct.

The planets inside Earth’s orbit, namely Mercury and Venus, are
retrograde when in inferior conjunction, the conjunction wherein the
planet is between the Earth and the Sun. At this point the planet is
again closest to the Earth.
Earth
Ve5

Me5

Closest to Earth when
Retrograde
during Inferior Conjunction.

Sun

Me

Ve

Furthest from Earth when
Direct
during Superior Conjunction.

There are differences of opinion regarding the effects of a
retrograde planet. Sri Mantresvara agrees that a planet becomes very
powerful, and also auspicious, when retrograde as he states in
PhalaDeepika, 9; 20:
“When a planet is in a retrograde motion he will produce the same effects as if he is
posited in exaltation, even if he is in his enemy’s sign or debilitation.”
Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra, in the calculation for the Ishta and
Kashta (good and ill) of the planets, infers that a planet’s benefic

Deeptaadi Avasthas

97

tendencies are greater when retrograde. The greater the Cheshta Bala
(motional strength) the greater the good of the planet. The Cheshta
Bala is greatest during a planet’s retrograde motion. It appears,
therefore, that a planet is more benefic during its retrograde motion.
Bhavartha Ratnakara, 13; 16 supports this view: “Malefics cause good
by having retrograde motion.”
Saravali, 5; 39, however does not hold the view that malefics are
capable of good when they are retrograde: “Retrograde planets are very
powerful. The benefics confer kingship while the malefics cause misery and aimless
wandering.”
Furthermore, some astrological classics state that the dasa of a
planet that is retrograde is good, while others state that it will be
difficult.
The fact that there are many contradictions comes at no surprise
when you consider that a retrograde planet, though appearing to
move retrograde from our view on Earth, is actually moving forward
from the view of the Sun. The planet is, therefore, moving in two
directions and that makes it tricky to really know what effects it will
give. Is it going to give the forward motion effects or the retrograde
effects?
The most important factor in determining the effects of a
retrograde planet is whether the planet is indicating auspicious results
or inauspicious results due to its placement, yogas, etc., and not its
natural benefic or malefic quality. If a retrograde planet is indicating
auspicious results by placement, yogas, etc., then it will give more
auspicious results than if it were not retrograde, all other factors
equal. If a retrograde planet is indicating inauspicious results then it
will give less inauspicious results then if it were not retrograde, all
other factors equal.

98

Vault of the Heavens

A very important factor to be aware of regarding the Shakta
Avasthas is that Shakti is particularly the power of the consciousness.
Retrograde planets, therefore, are more under the conscious
influence of the native. The native will generally make conscious
decisions regarding the affairs of the retrograde planets as well as
make conscious decisions during the periods of the retrograde
planets.
A few other important points regarding retrograde planets follow:
1. A retrograde planet should be considered powerful, as the
ShaktaAvastha describes, giving its results with great force and its
auspicious results in great measure.
2. All retrograde planets are worse for health than when direct. The
retrograde motion is not vitalizing to the physical organism and
indicates inherently weaker organs.
3. Retrograde planets, when they affect the 7th house or lord, or
when a retrograde planet is the 7th lord, seem to cause less
fulfillment and greater difficulties in relationships. This is
because, in relationships, if you are not moving forward, the
relationship suffers, and with a retrograde planet it becomes more
difficult to move forward.
4. Retrograde planets have more surprises to offer of an unexpected
nature.
5. As retrograde planets are closer to Earth they emphasize some
aspect of the natives individuality which is more unique to the
native’s character. A retrograde planet operates in a manner that
is in reverse of, or different from, the collective trend or
mentality, thereby individualizing the native.
6. A retrograde planet is traveling back over a portion of space that
it has just crossed. This emphasizes a more powerful past life
influence with lessons and talents that are of greater importance
to develop and use in this lifetime.
7. Retrograde planets often have the capacity to bring something
that was in use in the past into the present. They are therefore

Deeptaadi Avasthas

99

more inclined to prompt interests that are from an older time or
culture than a direct planet.
8. Retrograde planets, from our position on Earth, are going
backwards, but they are actually moving forward around the Sun;
therefore, they are moving the native forward spiritually.
KOPA- ANGRY
A planet is angry when combust by the Sun.
Kopa also means the state of being in contradiction with, or
incompatible with. A planet is combust when it is in such close
proximity to the Sun that it becomes invisible. The Sanskrit name for
this is Asta which means “setting.” Following are the degrees, from
the Sun, wherein a planet becomes combust:
Moon: 12 °
Mars: 17 °
Mercury: 14 °, 12 ° when retrograde.
Jupiter: 11 °.
Venus: 10 °, 8 ° when retrograde.
Saturn: 15 °.
The closer the planet is to the Sun the greater the effect of the
combustion.
The planets outside the Earth’s orbit have a similar cycle as that of
the new Moon waxing to full Moon and waning to dark Moon. The
cycles of Mars, Jupiter and Saturn begin at their conjunction with the
Sun. They then orbit until they are opposite the Sun, at which time
the Earth is between the Sun and the planet, who is now retrograde.
At this point the planet is closest to Earth, the avastha is Shaktapowerful. The planet then begins to approach the Sun until it is
combust, setting in respect to the Sun. At this point the planets are
furthest from the Earth and made invisible by the Sun; they have
spent their shakti (power), and now find themselves weak. Weak,
they are not competent to fulfill their respective duties and get

100

Vault of the Heavens

frustrated, angry, and resort to base means. Another name for the
avastha of a combust planet is Mushita- robbed.
The two planets inside Earth’s orbit, Mercury and Venus, are
combust when in, or near, inferior and superior conjunction; that is,
when they are closest and furthest from the Earth respectively. The
difference of a combust planet during superior conjunction from that
of a combust planet during inferior conjunction is an area of
research. When Mercury or Venus are combust at superior
conjunction they are actually behind the Sun, actually setting. Not
only are they obscured by the rays of the Sun, they are also behind
the body of the Sun. When they are combust at inferior conjunction
(when they are between the Sun and the Earth) they are not actually
setting; though they are obscured by the light of the Sun they are not
actually hidden by the body of the Sun. In my opinion therefore,
Mercury or Venus being combust when retrograde is not so severe
since they are not actually setting behind the Sun. In my experience I
have found that when Mercury or Venus are combust and not
retrograde, the qualities of the planet are hidden and weak. When
they are retrograde and in combustion range I have found their
qualities to be very pronounced. I therefore give emphasis to the
Shakta Avastha when a planet is retrograde and combust.
Psychologically, combust planets give rise to feelings of
vulnerability and insecurity, which are the result of ego attachment.
Just as the Sun is the center of the solar system with planets revolving
around him, the natal Sun is the self whom the other planets serve
and assist in the world through the use of their different abilities.
When one of them is combust, the self has become so attached to
the functions represented by the planet, that they can only be used in
a dysfunctional manner.
The issues revolving around combustion develop in this lifetime
as a result of experiencing continual failure when attempting to use
the functions of the combust planet. These feelings of failure are
usually the result of associating with the father, as the Sun represents
the father, or the person indicated by the house the Sun rules, or by
those represented by the house wherein the combustion takes place.

Deeptaadi Avasthas

101

Another name for the avastha of a combust planet translates into
failing.
Whether one feels robbed, or failing, as the result of combustion,
the resulting avastha is always Kopa, angry and frustrated.
Combust planets are hidden by the Sun, the vulnerabilities
indicated by them are just as well hidden. The malefics tend to hide
their vulnerability by excessive displays of their traits. Benefics tend
to hide their vulnerabilities by acting unconcerned, or nonchalant, as
if it is not important enough to bother with.
In order to understand the specific characteristics of each planet
in combustion it is hoped the following will be helpful:
Moon, Combust
The Moon is the manas, the sense mind, through which the Sun,
the soul, experiences itself as the reflection of the world. When the
Moon is combust, it is dark, there is no reflection; the native feels
frustrated from not being able to enjoy themselves as the reflection
of the world. The Moon is the social planet, whenever we do
something with another we are actually only relating to ourselves, the
other is merely a reflection of our self, therefore the native also
suffers on account of being unable to enjoy their reflection as others.
The combust Moon always indicates a lack of need fulfillment, and
resulting frustration, in the areas it influences.
Mars, Combust
When Mars is combust the self is over identified with the function
of strength, will and power. The native feels that they must be the
strongest, most powerful, or right in order to feel secure. This
generally creates a need to prove that they are strong and powerful.
Their over identification with and attachment to power and their
need to validate themselves through the use of it generally causes a
lot of power struggles with others. With those that are more powerful
than them or when confronted by a great obstacle they generally lack
courage. Combust Mars is angry due to being frustrated in making
happen what they think should be.

102

Vault of the Heavens

Mercury, Combust
When Mercury is combust the individual experiences feelings of
vulnerability when making requests. The self is identified with the
function of speech and feels hurt and rejected when his requests are
slighted or denied. The ego is fearful of having its request denied and
therefore feeling rejected on a personal level. Even legitimate
requests such as asking for a well-deserved raise, requesting from
loved ones and returning an item to a store become difficult. After
some time the individual feels taken advantage of and unfulfilled at
which time anger and resentment set in. The individual must
recognize that they must take direct responsibility for getting their
needs and desires met by communicating them clearly and strongly.
They are generally only able to communicate their desires and needs
more overtly through hints, or in a joking manner. Combust Mercury
presents the most trouble in personal relationships where a clear
communication of needs and desires is important for maintaining
harmony and in business affairs where money must be asked for. In
essence, when Mercury is combust the native is angry because they
are unable to maintain a fair exchange with others.
Generally the issues revolving around a combust Mercury develop
in this lifetime when the native, as a child, felt rejected when making
requests for things from the father, and the father answering
something like this, “What do you want that for, it’s stupid, a waste
of money, etc.”
Jupiter, Combust
When Jupiter is combust the native feels that they are unable to
meet a set of ideals which their ego considers necessary for spiritual
blessings. The self is attached to the need for perfect and noble
behavior in order to be worthy of God’s grace. They are unable to
accept themselves with their own imperfections and feel that God
will not either. There is little room for self-forgiveness and a resulting
lack of faith in God’s interest in their personal welfare. They may
easily believe that others can receive Gods blessings, but that they are
unable to believe that they themselves can. This creates a feeling of

Deeptaadi Avasthas

103

purposelessness in their activities, including their spiritual activities,
because they feel that no matter what the effort they are still
imperfect and therefore worthless in God’s eyes. In essence when
Jupiter is combust the native is angry at religion or God for making it
impossible for them.
Generally the issues revolving around a combust Jupiter are
developed as a result of experiencing some belief system that was
presented in a dogmatic fashion. This belief system or the manners in
which it was presented, would not have allowed for the normal
feelings and desires which all humans have. Being of perfect
behavior, word and thought would have been stressed with no
practical methods being taught to control the mind and transcend
desires. The individual would then be left in despair, without hope
for any possible salvation.
Another consideration of Jupiter’s combustion is that the native
will feel insecure about their knowledge or wisdom. This will cause
them frustration and anger when confronted by something they do
not understand. Rather than admit that they do not understand they
are more likely to act as if it is unimportant at the moment and try to
sneak out of dealing with their lack of understanding.
Venus, Combust
When Venus is combust the native is unable to exhibit the healthy
pride necessary for diplomacy. Diplomacy is the tool of healthy pride
that respects others as well as the self. Combust Venus indicates poor
diplomatic abilities, the result of vulnerable pride. They therefore
suffer abuse on account of other’s behavior towards them which
results in anger and frustration.
Another consideration when Venus is combust is that the native
experiences feelings of vulnerability when expressing love and
affection. The self is identified with the function of expressing love
and affection to the degree that if their affection is not received and
validated fully they feel rejected. This may make an individual seem
rigid or indifferent in expressing love and affection. In essence, when
Venus is combust the native is angry because they are not getting the

104

Vault of the Heavens

love and attention they desire. This tendency is generally developed
when the native, as a child, either gave a hug or said, “I love you” to
the father, or another, without having the affection or words
returned, either because the parent was busy or did not have the
capacity to do so.
Saturn, Combust
When Saturn is combust the native feels overwhelmed and
overburdened with life, as if they were never given a fair chance. One
generally lacks discipline and perseverance to do all that they are
required to do and would rather complain or find another, easier way
out of their responsibilities. They generally exhibit bitterness and
resentment. They are generally unable to give of themselves unless
they know that they will derive some benefit. In essence, when
Saturn is combust the native is angry at the world at large for the
burdens that are a part of it.
Another tendency of a combust Saturn is a native who works
extremely hard to validate themselves, but never feels validated by
their activities and as a result becomes full of frustrated hate and
jealousy.
These tendencies are generally developed in this lifetime by some
responsibility being forced upon the native at an early age when they
were to young to handle it, and without proper validation for their
accomplishments.
Combust House Lords and Houses with Combust Planets
Similarly a planet in combustion will harm and create anger and
failure with the indications and functions governed by the houses it
rules, as well as to the house it is place in. For instance, if the 9th lord
is combust the native will experience anger towards father, religion,
etc. If this 9th lord is in the 7th house one will also experience this
anger with their spouse and partners.

Deeptaadi Avasthas

105

Overcoming the Difficulties of Combustion
In order to rid oneself of the anger and frustration indicated by a
combust planet one must learn to detach from the functions of the
planet concerned. I generally counsel those with combust planets to
tell themselves, “I am going to use my Mercury, Venus, etc.” This
helps to separate the “I” from the planet and its corresponding
function, allowing one to feel that they are using a tool to accomplish
a given task, with no risk or attachment to themselves.
USE OF DEEPTAADI AVASTHAS
1. The avastha of a planet indicates how one feels and experiences
those things it is a Karaka, or producer, of.
2. The avastha of a planet indicates how one feels and experiences
those things indicated by the house the planet rules in the
horoscope.
3. The avastha of a planet indicates how one feels and experiences
those things indicated by the house the planet is in.
4. The native’s life at a particular moment may be described by the
Deeptaadi-Avastha of the dasa and bukti lord. Particular
importance should be given to the avastha of the bukti lord, as he
is indicative of the specific trend in the native’s life.
5. The Deeptaadi-Avastha will not indicate what will happen, or the
extent of good or bad that is to happen in a particular dasa, bukti,
etc. It is possible to feel miserable, and experience great suffering
and trial, while doing something wonderful; it is also possible to
feel peaceful and contented even though nothing or terrible
things are happening in life. It is the feeling that the DeeptaadiAvastha lets us see, not what happens. What happens we
determine otherwise, but with the Deeptaadi-Avastha we can
always predict how one will feel about something in their life, and
the stresses or strengths that accompany any activity.
6. A planet may conform to more then one Deeptaadi Avastha in
which case all the relevant avasthas should be made use of.

Vault of the Heavens

106

The Churning of the Ocean
After which Rahu and Ketu were born.

The Houses

107

8
The Houses
The birth horoscope is divided into 12 portions; each portion is
known as a house, or in Sanskrit as a Bhava. Each house relates to
different tendencies and affairs of life. There are different systems for
determining the extent of each house within the horoscope and
different astrologers prefer different methods. In the last portion of
this chapter we will discuss the different house systems, but first a
look at the houses themselves.
TYPES OF HOUSES
Kendras (angular houses): 1st, 4th, 7th, and 10th

The angles are the powerhouses that lend strength and the
capacity for fruit bearing actions to the horoscope.
Planets placed in angles generally do well in respect to their
indications and the houses they rule. There is great emphasis and
momentum behind these planets.
Panaparas (succedent houses): 2nd, 5th, 8th, and 11th
Panapara houses lend firmness, stability and security to the
horoscope.
Apoklimas (cadent houses): 3rd, 6th, 9th, and 12
Apoklima houses provide communication, consideration and
assessment and to the horoscope.
Trikonas (trine houses): 1st, 5th, and 9th
Trikonas provide fortune, luck, grace, and blessings.
Planets placed in trines generally do well in respect to their
indications and the houses they rule.

108

Vault of the Heavens

Dusthana houses: 6th, 8th, and 12th
Dusthanas are the transitory houses that indicate the need for
change. They generally force difficulties upon the native. They are the
houses through which the more difficult aspects of karma manifest.
Planets placed in Dusthanas generally suffer in respect to their
indications and the houses they rule. If there are benefic influences to
planets in these houses then there may be some difficulty associated
with their obtainment though they need not suffer otherwise.
Upachaya (increase): 3rd, 6th, 10th, and 11th
Planets in Upachayas give their effects in an increasing measure
throughout the native’s life. The native strives to make better use of
these planets throughout life. The effects of a planet in the 3rd house
increase as the native develops their skills and talents. The effects of a
planet in the 6th house increase as the native is forced to improve
upon them due to the struggles and obstacles indicated by the 6th
house. The effects of a planet in the 10th house increase as the
native’s status and career blossom. The planets in the 11th house
increase as one acquires more throughout life.
Artha, Kama, Dharma and Moksha
Artha, Kama, Dharma, and Moksha refer to the four primary aims
of life which all of us are concerned with to a greater or lesser extent
at different times of our life. Each aim has three houses that are
indicative of it. One house represents the initial action towards the
goal, another house represents the struggles we must go through to
get there, and another house represents the final goal in completion.
Artha, simply put, means achievement, and represents the actions
toward and achievement of man’s fundamental needs that are
necessary as a support for the other three aims in life. It is Artha that
consumes a great deal of man’s time and energy and provides
continual motivation for the actions that are at least necessary for
survival. Necessary wealth, maintaining health, overcoming material
liabilities and having meaningful work all fall under the realm of
Artha. The 2nd, 6th and 10th houses are indicative of Artha.

The Houses

109

Kama represents the desires that man wishes to fulfill. It is Kama
that provides the ego with endless entanglements. Personal interests
and desires, fame, human love and sex fall under the domain of
Kama. The 3rd, 7th and 11th houses are indicative of Kama.
Dharma means righteousness and steadfastly following some
lawful conduct that results in mans highest good and long term
happiness. It is Dharma that gives meaning and purpose to life.
Finding our niche in life, cultivating our natural intelligence and gifts,
and following a meaningful belief system fall under the realms of
Dharma. The 1st, 5th and 9th houses are indicative of Dharma. In the
Srimad Bhagavatam, Lord Krishna states that following one’s dharma
leads to prosperity, these houses are therefore important for wealth.
Moksha means liberation and freedom from pain and suffering
through spiritual transcendence and bliss in God’s presence.
Mental/emotional poise and equilibrium, emotional detachment and
purification of sins, and belief and surrender unto That which is
greater than oneself all fall under the realm of Moksha. Moksha is the
most important of all the aims as it is the only one that is everlasting
and ever joyful. Moksha is maintained as the one and only goal worth
acquiring and the other aims of life are ideally directed in such a
manner as to assist in this supreme goal. The 4th, 8th and 12th houses are
indicative of Moksha.
THE 12 HOUSES
Below are listed the twelve houses along with their indications.
There is some explanation given for each house in such a manner as
to facilitate the students understanding of the concepts underlying
each house. There are of course many other indications of the
houses; the ones given here are those of greatest importance and
everyday use.
The Lagna, 1st House
The Lagna represents the individual’s expression into the world.
This expression has a purpose and therefore falls under the realm of
Dharma

110

Vault of the Heavens

The individual’s expression into the world requires a physical
form; therefore the Lagna represents the body and its appearance.
This expression is also one of uniqueness and therefore endows one
with personality.
The power of the will, behind this expression, to live in
accordance with Dharma creates vitality; therefore the Lagna also
indicates strength and vitality. This vitality is indicative of selfesteem.
2nd House
The 2nd house represents the Artha that the individual has earned
and comes to them as personal resources, with which they may
have the opportunity to do something of value with.
One’s first resource is their family; therefore the 2nd house
represents family and the name that comes with it.
The first resources which one consciously uses are sight and
speech; therefore the 2nd house rules ones speech and eyes.
The first resource that one needs is food; therefore the 2nd house
rules food and the taste accompanying it.
Other resources are wealth and possessions that come at different
times; therefore the 2nd house rules wealth and movable
possessions.
Another important resource is that of friends, the 2nd house
therefore also rules friends.
Family, name, friends, the ability to talk, the taste of good foods,
possessions and seeing possessions all provide for a sense of worth
and value.
Family, friends and possessions, all being of value to the native,
are also those things the native keeps close and takes care of. The 2nd
house therefore also rules that which the native takes care of and that
which is close to them.
3rd House
The 3rd house represents the personal desires and goals, one
wants to fulfill and is therefore a house of Kama.

The Houses

111

The strength and initiative with which we pursue our desires and
goals indicates our courage, therefore the 3rd house represents
courage. Closely related to this is intellectual confidence, another
important indication of the 3rd house.
The 3rd house as representing the energy with which to fulfill
personal desires grants longevity in order to fulfill them. The 3rd
house is therefore a house of longevity.
The 3rd house as representing those, which may assist us in
fulfilling our desires, indicates brothers, sisters, and associates.
The 3rd house as indicating the exchange between others and us as
mentioned represents communication, correspondence, and
commerce.
Though the 2nd house represents speech, speech alone is not
communication therefore the 3rd house rules hearing, which is
necessary for communication.
At times in the pursuit of our desires and goals it becomes
necessary to travel, therefore the 3rd house rules short journeys.
4th House
The 4th house represents the inner foundation and strength
within us, as well as indicating the inner mind, the realm where we
have total freedom. The 4th house is therefore a house of Moksha or
liberation. The 4th house is the inner reservoir within which our
consciousness dwells.
The 4th house indicates the mental freedom to choose our
attitude, which gives us the choice of happiness; therefore, the 4th
house is indicative of happiness.
It is an accepting, nurturing environment that initially allows for
the proper development of our inner emotional nature. As the
mother is primarily responsible for this acceptance and nurturing the
4th house rules the mother.
Our home, land and house are also places where we become free
from the world, therefore the 4th house rules our home, house and
land.

112

Vault of the Heavens

The 4th house provides us with the ability to free our
consciousness from our body; one way in which it does this is by
providing us with the means of moving our body without our own
effort through vehicles.
5th House
The 5th house indicates our creative intelligence, as it is our duty
to express this intelligence as part of our divinity the 5th house is a
house of Dharma.
The creative intelligence is the expression of our soul into the
world. Recognizing the creative intelligence behind our incarnation
allows us to see the real from the unreal. The 5th house therefore
indicates discrimination.
Learning to express our unique creative intelligence requires
education that serves to stimulate our intuitive knowledge, and
creative self, therefore the 5th house rules education of the sort that
we are inspired towards.
Man is responsible for playing his part in maintaining God's
creation and it becomes dutiful of him to create offspring. The 5th
house therefore rules children.
Expressing our creative intelligence fully requires the development
of the intuition. Intuition is developed through the practice of
spiritual techniques and the study of sacred writings. The 5th
house therefore rules Mantra and Sastra.
The expression of this intelligence manifests psychologically as
confidence in expressing love and that natural to the self.
6th House
The 6th house represents the work needed to achieve physical and
material well-being.
Our attention is drawn to areas that need improvement through
obstacles. These obstacles come to us as enemies, disease, accidents
and debt. The 6th house therefore rules accidents, enemies, disease
and debt.

The Houses

113

The 6th house as an Upachaya (house of increase) also rules any
means to overcome the above obstacles. The 6th house therefore
rules exercise, lawsuits, and fighting.
In dealing with the obstacles and delays of life one learns how to
behave in the world in a manner that creates a greater feeling of
harmony amidst suffering, lack and difficulties; in so doing one learns
Karma Yoga.
7th House
The 7th house is a house of Kama that indicates our desire to
fulfill ourselves through another. The 7th house therefore rules the
spouse and our relationship with them.
We also seek to fulfill ourselves through another through sex. The
th
7 house therefore also rules sex.
We also seek to fulfill ourselves through the public awareness.
The 7th house therefore also rules our relationship to the public.
8th House
The 8th house indicates the process of developing emotional
freedom and security. This emotional security is only possible once
we become free of all attachments that limit the perception of our
spiritual nature.
Sins are the greatest obstacle to realizing our spiritual nature. The
8th house therefore rules sins and their purification.
The need to purify ourselves of our sins and to reap the results of
our karma creates events in our life that are unplanned and
unexpected. The 8th house therefore rules unexpected happenings,
and breaks in life.
One way in which sins become purified, is through our bodies.
The 8th house therefore rules chronic disease, surgery, and severe
accidents resulting in the body suffering permanent damage, such as
broken bones. The health and physical difficulties indicated by the 8th
house are much deeper than those of the 6th house. The bodily
afflictions may also correspond to huge inner transformations,

114

Vault of the Heavens

which are so deep that the body itself undergoes some permanent or
long-term change.
The other great obstacles, to realizing our spiritual nature, are our
desires and attachments. The 8th house therefore indicates the
purification and transmutation of our desires and attachments.
Some attachments are of an older origin and may come to us as
legacies. The 8th house therefore rules legacies. Some of these
legacies come to us due to a need to purify ourselves of some old and
difficult Karma.
We desire to purify ourselves of sins even though it is painful and
difficult to do so. The 8th house therefore rules compulsive actions
that draw us to reap the results of our karma, and do things we would
otherwise not normally do.
Sins once purified may create a boon. The 8th house therefore
rules windfalls.
One of the main purposes of life is to reap the results of our
karma and transform ourselves and transmute our desires. The 8th
house therefore grants longevity in order to allow us time to do
these things.
The transformational processes of the 8th house may cause one to
inquire deeply into the nature of things. The 8th house therefore
rules the occult and esoteric studies.
We also desire to find security through the agency of another. The
8th house therefore rules the conjugal bond between husband and
wife, the value of a relationship and other peoples' resources.
9th House
The 9th house represents our efforts towards self-knowledge.
Acquiring self-knowledge creates a sense of purpose and motivates
one to walk a path of truth and righteousness. The 9th house is
therefore a house of Dharma.
Self-knowledge requires the study of truth, therefore the 9th house
rules philosophy and religion.

The Houses

115

Acquiring knowledge requires the help of a Guru, preceptor, or
teacher; therefore the 9th house rules the Guru, preceptor, and
teachers.
Acquiring self-knowledge requires proper conduct of spiritual and
moral laws; therefore the 9th house rules law.
Following moral and spiritual laws gives grace and fortune.
The father is the first teacher; responsible for teaching a child laws
with which to guide his life, therefore the 9th house rules the father.
The pursuit of self-knowledge requires one to seek and make
spiritual journeys. The 9th house therefore rules long distance
travels and pilgrimages.
10th House
The 10th house as the house of Karma (action) represents the
greatest energy and focus towards material achievement (Artha). It
especially rules the self in action.
We put the most energy into achieving the profession that
provides for our physical well being. The 10th house, therefore, rules
the energy put into the profession and the success of one's
profession.
Achievement gives status; therefore the 10th house rules status
and the respect that comes with it.
In traditional cultures the profession was given by the father, the
10th house therefore also rules the father. The 9th house indicates the
father’s example, well being and life. The impact of the father upon
the native to perform deeds, however, is more indicated by the 10th.
For predictive purposes, anything about the father should be
determined from the 9th house.
Our actions (karma) are supervised under some authority. The
th
10 house therefore rules all authority figures including the
government, boss, and the again the father.
11th House
The 11th house rules gains, because it represents that which we
desire to gain it is a house of Kama.

116

Vault of the Heavens

We gain when we succeed; the 11th house therefore rules success
in general.
Success provides one with degrees, and titles. The 11th house
therefore rules degrees, and titles.
An important gain to everyone is income.
As indicating that which we desire to gain the 11th house indicates
our greatest desires and temptations. The 11th house indicates the
last desires precluding liberation.
In traditional cultures the eldest sibling stood to gain the most
from the family, the younger siblings therefore looked upon the
eldest sibling with respect and as a source of gain. The 11th house
therefore rules elder siblings. Even in modern cultures the younger
siblings benefit greatly from the support, protection and validation
that an elder sibling can give. The 11th house therefore rules
validation, love, support and protection received not only from
the elder siblings, but also from any friends, peers or groups.
12th House
The 12th house liberates us from earthly concerns; therefore it is
the most significant Moksha house. One of the reasons we desire to
be free of Earthly concerns is to escape from the pain and suffering
that is part and parcel of the world. As the last house the 12th house
is also the house of completion.
Our greatest escape is to become spiritually liberated; therefore
the 12th house rules spiritual liberation.
Man pursues spiritual liberation through renunciation and
monastic life; therefore the 12th house rules renunciation and
monasteries.
Man is also taken away from practical concerns through
incapacitation and hospitalization. The 12th house therefore rules
incapacitation, hospitalization and hospitals.
Some find themselves becoming free from practical concerns
through imprisonment. The 12th house therefore also rules
imprisonment and prison.

The Houses

117

Sex, drugs and fantasy are also ways of escaping earthly concerns.
The 12th house therefore also rules sex, drugs and hidden desires.
One may also go to a foreign place once they have completed
reaping the results due them in their native place; the 12th house
therefore also represents foreign residence and other things of
foreign origin.
That, which we put out as we move through life, in order to fulfill
our responsibilities, indicates our expenses, which the 12th house
rules. As expense that may give eventual financial freedom the 12th
house also rules long-term investments.
Understanding comes from completion, the 12th house therefore
rules the research and experimentation that gives understanding, as
well as the laboratories this takes place in. In fact, the feet, which are
governed by the 12th house, symbolize understanding.
BODY PARTS
The body parts assigned to the houses 1 – 12, are the same as the
body parts assigned to the rasis Aries – Pisces.
HOUSES FOR OTHER PEOPLE
The horoscope can also be read for other people in the native’s
life. The house that rules the person in question becomes the first
house for that person with the other houses following. For instance,
to read the horoscope for the mother, the 4th house is the mother,
the 2nd from there, the 5th, is the mother’s wealth, the 3rd from the
4th, the 6th, is the mother’s siblings, etc.
SECONDARY MEANINGS OF THE HOUSES
The house, which is the same far away from a house as that house
is from the lagna, carries a similar meaning. This is known as Bhavat
Bhavam. For instance, the 3rd house is the 2nd from the 2nd and
therefore also relates to wealth. The 7th house is the 10th from the
10th and therefore also relates to professional status. The 3rd house is
the 8th from the 8th and therefore also relates to longevity. Many of

118

Vault of the Heavens

the subtle influences of a house can be understood in this manner.
This is also helpful when using Dasas to time the affairs of a house.
HOUSE SYSTEMS
There are a few different house systems common to Vedic
astrology. The most common system is known as the Rasi Chakra
(sign chart). This is the simplest method of determining the houses.
In the Rasi Chakra the first house is determined by the rasi rising on
the eastern horizon at the time of birth. This rasi is known as the
Lagna, or ascendant. Each successive rasi thereafter is another house.
The Rasi Chakra is unique in that each rasi is considered as an entire
house regardless of what degree a particular rasi rises. The Rasi
Chakra has the least amount of change on a given day than any of the
other house systems. Due to this it is the core chart that is the
foundation of the horoscope. The other house systems can modify or
add detail to what is indicated by the rasi chart, but never change it;
they rest on the foundation that is the Rasi Chakra. The Rasi Chakra
is used by all Vedic astrologers and is considered to be of primary
importance.
There are two other, more mathematical, methods of determining
the extent of the houses. These more mathematical methods are
known as Bhava Chakras (house charts). One type is known as the
Vedic Equal system of house division. In the Vedic Equal system the
degree of the rasi rising, or ascendant, becomes the cusp, or center,
of the first house and every 30 degrees thereon becomes the cusp of
the succeeding house. 15 degrees before and after the house cusp
becomes the house proper and each house is exactly 30 degrees in
extent. This is generally called the Equal House Chart.
The other method for determining the Bhava Chakra is known as
the Sri Pati method. In the Sri Pati method the degree of the rasi
rising becomes the cusp of the first house, similar to the Vedic Equal
method. A point called the mid-heaven becomes the cusp of the 10th
house and the point opposite the mid-heaven becomes the cusp of
the 4th house. The mid-heaven is determined by a meridian drawn
through the highest point directly overhead, and intersecting the

The Houses

119

ecliptic. The space between the first house cusp and the 4th house
cusp is trisected creating the cusps of the 2nd and 3rd houses. The
points opposite these become the cusps of the 8th and 9th houses.
The portion between the 10th house cusp and first house cusp is
similarly trisected creating the cusps of the 11th and 12th house cusps.
The points opposite these become the cusps of the 5th and 6th
houses. The house cusps mark the center of the houses. The unique
feature of this system is that since the 10th house cusp is generally not
perpendicular to the first house cusp the houses are of different
extents. The Sri Pati house system creates two potential areas that
may create confusion in one’s interpretation: There may be different
house lords for the Bhava Chakra than for the Rasi Chakra due to the
unequal division of the houses. As a result, two house cusps often fall
in one rasi, and some rasis may not hold any house cusps at all. At
greater northern or southern latitudes this becomes extreme, often
one rasi holds three or more house cusps. Due to this, many western
astrologers in Europe who regularly calculate horoscopes for people
born further north than 50-degrees north, rely on the equal house
system.
Three house systems to choose from may cause a lot of
confusion. My view is the following:
1. The Rasi Chakra is of primary importance; it is a safe bet that
never seems to fail. All astrologers use this one first, most
astrologers use this one only.
2. The Bhava Chakras rest on the foundation of the Rasi Chakra, so
they can add detail to what is indicated by the Rasi Chakra, but
they can in no way alter what the Rasi Chakra indicates. I have
found that a planet will manifest the indications as seen in the
Rasi Chakra, through the house it falls in the Bhava Chakra.
3. The Equal House system is more preferable than the Sri Pati
method. It works well at all latitudes, and, since it changes less
quickly than the Sri Pati method, it creates a stronger foundation
chart than the Sri Pati.
4. The Sri Pati Bhava Chakra may to be more important in
Varshaphal (solar returns).

Vault of the Heavens

120

House Indications
1st

Dharma/Trikona/Kendra, Appearance, Body, Determinative strength, Head,

House Health, Personality, Self-esteem, Vitality, Brain, Caste, Complexion, Hair,
2nd

House
3rd
House
4th
House
5th
House
6th
House

Qualities, Skin
Artha/Panapara, Eyes, Face, Family, Food, Friends, Name, Personal resources,
Possessions- moveable, Self-worth, Speech, Taste, Wealth, Apparel, Business,
Dependents, Nails, Right eye, Second wife, Tongue, Truth and falsehood
Kama/Apoklima/Upachaya/Leena Sthana (concealed house), Associates, Arms,
Commerce, Communications, Correspondence, Courage, Hearing, Longevity,
Personal desires, Short journeys, Siblings- younger, Strength, Ears, Will, Initiatory
instructions (Upadesha), Intellectual security, Lungs, Physical strength, Right ear
Moksha/Kendra/Chaturasra (square house), Breast, Buildings, Happiness, Home,
House, Land, Mind, Mother, Pranayam, Vehicles, Agriculture, Art, Bridge, Native
country, Garden, Medicines, Kingdom, Pathala (underworld), Water
Dharma/Trikona/Panapara, Children, Creative intelligence, Discrimination,
Education, Heart, Mantra, Shastras, Spiritual techniques, Stomach, Fall from
position, Amulets, Knowledge of the future, Royalty, Love expressed
Artha/Apoklima/Dusthana/Upachaya/Shatkona/Leena Sthana (concealed house)
Accidents, Bowels, Debt, Disease, Enemies, Exercise, Fighting, Injuries, Karma
Yoga, Lawsuits, Servants, Doubts, Humiliation, Maternal uncle, Obstruction,
Weapons, Weariness, Wicked actions, Vices, Witchcraft applied by enemies
Kama/Kendra, Internal sexual organs, Public Relationships, Partners, Sex, Spouse,
Foreign place, Maternal grandmother, Travels

7th
House
Moksha/Panapara/Dusthana/Chaturasra (square house)/Leena Sthana (concealed
8th
House house), Addictions, Breaks, Chronic disease, Compulsive actions, Surgery,
9th
House
10th
House
11th
House
12th
House

Conjugal bond, Death, Sexual organs, Legacies, Longevity, Witch craft, Occult,
Purification of sins, Accidents leaving permanent damage, Sins, Transmutation,
Unexpected events, Vulnerability, Windfalls, Killing, Vices, Emotional security
Dharma/Trikona/Apoklima, Father, Fortunes, Guru, Law, Long journeys,
Purpose, Penance, Philosophy, Pilgrimages, Teachers, Thighs, Fables, Good
company, Meritorious deeds, Morals, Religious merit, Righteousness, Sacred
studies, Vows
Artha/Kendra/Upachaya, Command, Employer, Father, Government, Karmasactions, Knees, Professional success, Respect, Status, Authority, Celestial
phenomena, Fame, ,Position, Government, King, Royalty, Sovereignty
Kama/Panapara/Upachaya/Shatkona, Ankles/Calves, Elder Sibling, Gains, Titles,
Greatest desires, Degrees, Income, Peers, Groups, Success, Advancement of
one's actions, Left ear, Wish fulfillment, Love and Validation received
Moksha/Apoklima/Dusthana/Leena Sthana (concealed house), Charity,
Completions, Dreams, Drugs, Escape, Expenditure, Fantasy, Feet, Foreign
countries and residence, Hidden desires, Hospitalizations, Hospitals,
Imprisonment, Incapacitation, Laboratories, Long term investments, Losses,
Maternal grandfather, Monasteries, Prisons, Renunciation, Sex, Sleep, Spiritual
liberation, Bed, Hidden enemy, Left eye, Loss of a limb, Sacrifices, Spy

House Lords

121

9
House Lords
The planet ruling the rasi of a particular house becomes what is
known as the lord, or ruler, of the house. A planet acquires a
temporal benefic, malefic, or neutral disposition depending upon this
lordship. This disposition is based upon the motivation with which
the planet is used; with self-will or with righteous purpose.
NATURE OF PLANETS DUE TO HOUSE LORDSHIP
In Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra are given the guidelines for
determining the disposition of the planets based upon which houses
they rule:
“Benefics ruling angles will not give benefic results
while malefics ruling angles will not remain
inauspicious.”
The planets ruling the angles are focused towards some definite
actions whose motivations may vary, their dispositions are therefore
neutral.
“It has been said that a natural malefic owning an
angle will become auspicious which is only true when it
simultaneously rules a trine and not by merely owning
an angle.”
Some are of the opinion that a natural malefic becomes a
temporal benefic when ruling an angle, though in fact it only ceases
to give malefic results becoming therefore neutral, unless it also rules
a trine. Some astrologers similarly consider benefics ruling angles to
become temporally malefic, but again this is not accurate, they simply

122

Vault of the Heavens

loose their benefic nature to become neutral, which is a far cry from
becoming malefic.
“The lord of a trine will give auspicious results.”
The planets ruling the trines are attuned towards Dharma and
their activities are righteously motivated.
“The lord of the lagna is particularly auspicious, since
the lagna is an angle as well as a trine.”
“A planet owning the 3rd, 6th or 11th house will give
inauspicious effects.”
The planets ruling the 3rd, 6th and 11th houses are egocentric in
disposition, which generally leads to selfishness.
“The effects of the lords of the 2nd, 12th and 8th will
depend upon their conjunction and upon the other
house they rule.”
The planets ruling these houses may be used with either
egocentric or righteous motivation and are therefore neutral. The
other house they rule will indicate their motivation. If they only rule
one house then they will take on the temporal disposition of any
planet they are with.
“The 8th lord is not auspicious as he owns the 12th from
the 9th. If the 8th lord simultaneously owns the 3rd, 7th or
11th he will prove to be particularly harmful while his
simultaneous ownership of a trine will bestow
auspicious effects. The 8th lordship of the Sun and Moon
is not harmful.”

House Lords

123

Though the motivation with which the 8th lord is used is neutral,
the 8th lord ruling the house of crisis, destruction and breaks in life
gives difficulties.
“In each group the significance will be in the ascending
order.”
This is to say that within the four groups: angle lords, trine lords,
the 3rd, 6th and 11th lords, and the 2nd, 12th and 8th, the effects are
stronger in each group in accordance to the order they are presented.
Among angular lords: the 7th is stronger than the 4th, and the 10th is
stronger than the 7th. Among the trine lords: the 5th is more
auspicious than the 1st, and the 9th is more auspicious than the 5th.
Among the 3rd, 6th and 11th lords: the 6th is more malefic than the 3rd,
and the 11th is more malefic than the 6th. Among the 2nd, 12th and 8th
lords: the 12th is more firm in its neutrality than the 2nd, and the 8th is
more firm in its neutrality than the 12th.
“The planet owning a predominant house will stall the
effects due to another owning a less significant house
and will give his own results.”
This is to say that the temporal disposition of a house lord may be
overridden by that of another. For Example: The 5th lord is the 2nd
strongest trine lord, the 3rd lord is the weakest evil lord; therefore if
these two mutually influence each other, or if the 5th lord influences
the 3rd lord, the beneficence of the 5th lord will override the
maleficence of the 3rd lord. If the 3rd lord is influencing the 5th lord,
its malefic qualities will not be able to overcome the benefic qualities
of the 5th lord.
In dasa interpretation this holds true as well. For example: If the
maha dasa lord is the 6th lord and the bukti is of the 9th lord, the 9th
lord will stall the evil effects of the 6th lord, since he rules the
strongest trine and the 6th lord is only ruling the 2nd strongest evil
house.

124

Vault of the Heavens

Some secondary rules regarding house lords are now being given:
“Due to ruling angles Mercury has more potential for
maleficence than the Moon, Jupiter more than Mercury
and Venus more than Jupiter.”
This is to say that if Venus, when ruling an angle and thereby
becoming neutral, also rules a house that causes him to become a
temporal malefic or if Venus is also joined with a temporal malefic,
he is capable of the most maleficence. Jupiter is less so when in
similar circumstances, followed by Mercury, followed by the Moon
who is least temporally malefic under similar circumstances.
“Should a planet own two houses, the effects of the
house which is the Moolatrikona will predominate while
the effects of its own rasi will be half.” -Phaladeepika 15, 11
The planet gives 2/3 effects towards its Moolatrikona house and
only 1/3 towards its other house.
“If a planet owns two signs, one of which falls in an
auspicious house and the other in a Dusthana, and if
the planet occupies the auspicious house he produces
the good results of the auspicious house and does not
produce any adverse effects of the other Dusthana.”
-Phaladeepika 15, 29

In this case the planet will place double emphasis upon the good
house it rules; first by owning it and secondly by being placed in it.
Similarly if a planet that rules two houses is placed in one of its
houses, it will take one the temporal disposition due to the house it is
in. For example: for Leo Lagna Mars is benefic on account of ruling
the 9th house and neutral on account of ruling the 4th house, if Mars
is in the 4th house he becomes a temporal neutral.

House Lords

125

Though the lagna lord is generally a temporal benefic, if it also
rules another angle and if it is placed in that angle, then consider it
temporally neutral.
“If one and the same planet, who rules a trine and an
angle, is placed in an angle or trine it will prove to be a
Yogakaraka.”
-Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra, House Lords, 13
A planet ruling both an angle and a trine becomes a Yogakaraka,
the producer of royal status, success and rise in life. This is due to the
fortune, intelligence, luck, and blessings of the trine combined with
the manifesting power of an angle. This is possible with Saturn for
Taurus and Libra lagnas, Mars for Cancer and Leo lagnas, and Venus
for Capricorn and Aquarius lagnas. For this planet to give rise it must
be well placed in the horoscope, preferably in an angle or trine, or in
mutual influence with an angle or trine lord.
DISPOSITIONS OF THE HOUSE LORDS
We shall now take a look at the dispositions of the planets as to
the houses they rule, keeping the above guidelines and the meaning
of the houses as studied in the previous chapter in mind:
Lagna (1st) Lord
The Lagnadhipati (Lagna lord) becomes a temporal benefic
because he rules the native’s expression of Dharma into the world,
assisting him in finding his niche and place in life.
2nd Lord
The 2nd lord represents our resources and how we use our
resources. Man may do this selfishly or unselfishly; therefore, the 2nd
lord is temporally neutral.
3rd Lord
The 3rd lord, representing the desires and interests of the ego and
its generally selfish pursuit of them, is temporally malefic in nature.

126

Vault of the Heavens

4th Lord
The 4th lord indicates our need for happiness and the manner in
which we attempt to find happiness. We may attempt to find
happiness in selfish or unselfish, good or evil ways and as a result the
4th lord is temporally neutral in its disposition.
5th Lord
The 5th lord, being the expression of the self as the intuitive and
creative intelligence, is a great temporal benefic.
6th Lord
The 6th lord, indicating poor behavior, is a temporal malefic that
forces one to improve through struggles, debt, disease, accidents and
enemies.
7th Lord
The 7th lord rules our desire to share with others. Most relationships,
particularly love relationships, are a blend of give and take, therefore
the 7th lord is temporally neutral in its disposition.
8th Lord
The 8th lord represents the karmic balance and purification necessary
to achieve liberation. In its duty to balance the karmic scales it may
give great unexpected gains, as well as great difficulties. In its desire
for spiritual purification it may also give occult knowledge. Most
significantly, however, the 8th lord uses the results of our past actions
to bring about purification, and that may be painful. The 8th lord is
temporally neutral, as its motivation is none other than to create
balance, though it is somewhat harmful in its effects because its duty
requires that.
9th Lord
The 9th lord, which indicates the higher self, the search for truth,
Dharma and the blessings that come from living a life of Dharma, is
a powerful temporal benefic.

House Lords

127

10th Lord
The 10th lord, which rules our dominant actions towards achieving
something of value, is the greatest indicator for our actions in the
world (Karma). We may achieve in selfish or unselfish ways;
therefore the 10th lord is temporally neutral.
11th Lord
The 11th lord is a temporal malefic as it rules one’s greatest desires,
one’s last temptations, and the ego’s tendency towards selfishness in
gaining and holding onto these.
12th Lord
The 12th lord represents freedom from worldly suffering. This
freedom may come from constructive, spiritual ways, or in
destructive ways such as drugs, sex, and excessive spending, therefore
the 12th lord is neutral. The 12th house also rules losses, which may
come either through transcendence or from excess.
PLANETS AS HOUSE LORDS
In general the different planets will incline the native to behave in
the following manner in regards to the houses which they rule:
Sun
The house that the Sun rules will be an area of life that the native
readily identifies with and an area where they have the capacity for
inspired creativity. It will also be an area where they express their
individuality.
Moon
The house which the Moon rules will be an area of life that feels
natural to the native’s way of being and wherein they are inclined to
look to for comfort.

128

Vault of the Heavens

Mars
The houses which Mars rules indicates that which the native has
strong opinions and ideas about, and what they are therefore inclined
to fight for, with or over. These will also be areas where the native
gains their strength.
Mercury
The houses which Mercury rules will be the areas that the native
practically understands, is capable of communicating, and uses in a
productive manner. They will also be the areas where the native tends
to practice fairness and impartiality.
Jupiter
The houses that Jupiter rules will be the areas of life where the
native experiences faith, hope, idealism, and optimism. They will also
be the areas through which the native has the greatest capacity to
assist society and where they express themselves in a wise, noble and
forgiving manner.
Venus
The houses, which Venus rules will be the areas of life through
which the native tends to fulfill their desires and find pleasure. The
houses ruled by Venus will also reflect that which the native loves
and is proud of.
Saturn
The houses which Saturn rules will be the areas of life where the
native experiences his insecurities, seeks stability and security and
where he is generally more rigid. The fulfillment of these houses
generally comes after delays and struggles. Significantly, the house
Saturn rules will represent agents that the difficult result of one's
karma will come through, as well as indicating areas where the native
has a debt to pay.

House Lords

129

HOUSES LORDS FOR THE 12 LAGNAS
Combining the lordship of a planet with the planet’s natural
characteristics gives insights into the specific function and nature of
each planet for each Lagna. Understanding the use and nature of
each planet in this manner for each of the 12 Lagnas allows for a
much deeper and holistic understanding of the lagna:
ARIES LAGNA
Sun as 5th Lord
The Sun is the Ram’s horns, which, growing from the third eye,
indicates will and intuitive and creative intelligence.
The Sun represents the Aries native’s independent spirit and heart.
It gives great inspiration to their character, powerful intelligence,
independent thinking, and the ability to acquire self-knowledge as
well as making them independent learners. The Sun as the 5th lord
causes their health to be dependent upon following their inspirations.
The Sun gives luck and knowledge and is a temporal benefic, though
as a natural malefic the Sun may separate the Aries lagna native from
those things it influences as a sacrifice for their self-development,
learning or inspirations.
Moon as 4th Lord
The Moon is the Ram’s roaming in his environment.
The Moon represents the Aries native’s fickle mentality,
fluctuating emotions, erratic search for happiness, and changeable
environment. The Moon also gives them a reflective and
contemplative mentality, though what they prefer to contemplate is
themselves, not out of any selfish reasons, but only because they are
discovering so much about themselves. The Moon as an angular lord
is temporally neutral, if dark and naturally malefic it may give the
discontent that causes neglect, if bright if gives a caring quality that
furthers anything along.

130

Vault of the Heavens

Mars as 1st and 8th Lord
Mars is the Ram’s powerful head-but, capable of great
destruction.
Aries, representing the beginning of a new cycle, generally has to
go through some huge transitions in life before finding themselves. It
is Mars, through his lordship of the 1st and 8th house, which causes
the personal transformations required to create a new identity. Mars,
therefore, represents the Aries native’s generally impulsive and
sometimes cataclysmic lifestyle. Mars gives great regenerative abilities,
and lends strength and courage to the personality that comes from
the willingness to confront the unknown as well as the willingness to
suffer the death (signified by the 8th house) of any situation. As the
lagna lord it gives a headstrong nature, that due to its 8th house
lordship may land them in trouble. Ruling the Lagna, Mars is a
temporal benefic as Mars is responsible for carving out their proper
place in life. As a natural malefic, however, he may disrupt those
things he influences when the native changes his ideas and thoughts
about those things he is most strongly identified with, or he may
bring disruption in order that the native changes their thoughts and
ideas.
Mercury as 3rd and 6th Lord
Mercury is the Ram’s physical and intellectual dexterity.
Mercury represents the Aries native’s very rational intellect that is
particularly of benefit when put to use in solving problems. It gives
them great engineering ability as well as a talent for healing the body.
If Mercury is combined with the Sun, or on an angle from the Sun,
then these abilities are greatly pronounced. Due to its 6th house
lordship, Mercury gives many problems to the realization of the
desires signified by the 3rd house. The 3rd and 6th houses, being two
houses of effort, and ruled by the intellectual planet Mercury inclines
the Aries native to do as much as they can with their intellect.
Mercury, being the planet of skills and dexterity, gives great physical
talents through its lordship of the 3rd and 6th houses. The 3rd and 6th
houses are both Upachaya houses (houses of increase) indicating that

House Lords

131

Mercury gives a budding intelligence that results in an increasing
amount of skills and talents. Since Mercury rules two evil houses it
becomes temporally malefic, indicating intellectual competitiveness,
and a self-centered pursuit of their interests, though Mercury also
causes them to play fair, even in war. As a natural benefic, however,
Mercury gives them the practical intelligence and skills that help them
get what they want.
Jupiter as 9th and 12th Lord
Jupiter is the Ram’s golden fleece; the protection of it as well as
the quest for it.
Jupiter represents the Aries native’s innate faith and capacity for
surrender. Jupiter causes them to have faith in surrender as loss turns
to fortune more often than not. It gives a strong idealism that they
will willingly suffer loss on account of. Jupiter grants them happiness
through foreign travels and this makes them great pioneers of the
globe. Due to its 9th house lordship Jupiter is a powerful temporal
benefic and a planet of great fortune. Due to the 12th lordship,
however, Jupiter may give some losses or expense that help maintain
the native’s pursuit of their dharma, although, as a natural benefic,
even these losses are nothing but long term investments resulting in
greater prosperity and happiness.
Venus as 2nd and 7th Lord
Venus is the Ram’s libido, in fact they smell of their musky
semen.
Venus represents the Aries native’s desire for partnership, as well
as giving passionate tastes. Since Venus rules the 2nd house of
possessions it inclines towards some possessiveness, but just as well
makes them inclined for marriage and family life, as well as making
them good providers. With others, Venus gives them diplomacy
enabling them to be convincing speakers. Venus inclines them to be
proud of their partners and possessions and gives them the desire for
only the finest. Venus also gives them a healthy capacity to enjoy and
love these as well. Venus is a temporal neutral for Aries lagna, and

132

Vault of the Heavens

although Venus expects a lot from her partners, she will keep her end
of any bargain. As a natural benefic, Venus gives luxury, comfort and
pleasure through possessions and members of the opposite sex.
Saturn as 10th and 11th Lord
Saturn is the Ram’s lone nature that prefers them to wander off
and scale individual heights.
Saturn, as 10th and 11th lord, indicates a strong desire for status
and success that serves to bolster any insecurity that the native may
have. Saturn causes them to dislike any authority figures or groups
that may be a threat to their individuality, and they tend to have
difficult experiences with these as well. These all contributes to
making them happier when they work for themselves and maintain
their independence. Saturn also prefers them to maintain some
separation from the group, unless they are the authority figure in the
group. Saturn gives delays in success and status, which serve to
humble the native along the way. Success and fame, however, may be
lasting once earned. Due to ruling the 11th house, Saturn becomes
temporally malefic and may give great selfishness and coldness when
it comes to the pursuit of status, career, income, honors, desires, etc.
Since Saturn is also a natural malefic, it becomes the most malefic
planet for Aries and causes separation and loss that is the result of
ambition.
TAURUS
Sun as 4th lord
The Sun is the Bull’s strength.
The Sun, as the 4th lord, gives a steadfast mentality, which is the
unalterable strength of the Taurus native. The Sun ruling the 4th
house makes them solid and grounded, but gives a lack of negotiation
capacity when it comes to their emotional needs. The Sun indicates
that their happiness and security is more self-dependent. As an angle
lord the Sun is a temporal neutral, and other factors influencing the
Sun will indicate whether their efforts for happiness and well-being
are selfishly inclined or dharmic in nature. As a natural malefic, the

House Lords

133

Sun may serve to separate the native from those things it influences
due to other security needs and desires for happiness.
Moon as 3rd Lord
The Moon is the Bull’s gentleness.
The Moon, as the 3rd lord, indicates a skilled mentality and a
preference for ease in their activities rather than force or exertion.
The Moon gives changeable hobbies, and desires, and great
commercial skills. Due to ruling the 3rd house, the Moon is a
temporal malefic that is self-motivated, since the Moon is kind and
flexible though, it will not create conflict on account of its desires. As
a natural benefic, the bright Moon gives skills that allow for the
growth and fulfillment of the areas it influences. As a natural malefic,
the dark Moon tends to give a pessimistic attitude and unresolved
desires which reduces the happiness possible with the areas it
influences.
Mars as 7th and 12th Lord
Mars is the Bull’s cows.
Mars, as the 7th and 12th lord, indicates a very powerful sexual
nature and the possible expense or loss on account of partners and
relationships. Mars is a temporal neutral, as a natural malefic
however; Mars will give the dark side of passion in relationships;
anger and conflict.
Mercury as 2nd and 5th Lord
Mercury is the Bull’s wealth.
Mercury, as the 2nd and 5th lord, gives the Taurus native a practical
and efficient mentality. Mercury gives a knack for speculations and
makes them lucky in business, but this luck is due largely to their
intelligence, resourcefulness and preparedness. Their intelligence is
really their best resource. Mercury also indicates a creative speaker as
well. Due to the 5th house lordship, Mercury becomes a temporal
benefic, and as a natural benefic as well, Mercury gives intelligence,

134

Vault of the Heavens

practicality, and the resourcefulness which allows the Taurus native
to fulfill the areas which Mercury influences.
Jupiter as 8th and 11th Lord
Jupiter is the Bull’s utility.
Jupiter as the 8th and 11th lord gives the Taurus native an ability to
gain from difficulties, breaks, etc.; Jupiter makes them an
opportunist. Due to the 11th house lordship, Jupiter becomes a
temporal malefic and creates a greediness or miserliness that hopes to
make up for any fears or vulnerabilities. As a natural benefic, Jupiter
is inclined to give fulfillment for some time, but its 8th house
lordships is bound to make things unsteady.
Venus as 1st and 6th Lord
Venus is the Bull’s plodding
Venus as the 1st and 6th lord, being a comfort-loving planet,
inclines the native to prefer a luxurious life rather than a hard one, as
well as giving a tendency towards self-indulgence. However, Venus
also gives physical strength, and, when the need arises, the native is
capable of great effort, though preferring comfort. Venus may give a
bit of self-pride and pride due to one’s works. Due to the 6th house
lordship Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra states that Venus is a temporal
malefic, but for Scorpio with whom Mars shares the same lordship,
Mars is given as neutral, so I have to question the lagna lord being
malefic for Taurus. Not that I question Parashara, only that when
something has been rewritten for 5,000 years a couple of errors are
bound to creep in. The 6th lordship does gives trouble, but trouble
that the native is really responsible for himself. Venus ruling the 1st
and 6th house shows that the native is really his own worst enemy or
best friend for pointing out needed areas of improvement. As the
lagna lord, Venus is responsible for finding the native's niche in life,
but the 6th house lordship throws some obstacles, delays or struggles
into the path. The 6th house being an upachaya linked to the lagna
shows that there will be gradual improvement in one’s life. As a

House Lords

135

natural benefic, Venus gives fulfillment and pleasures to those areas it
influences after the native has done the work to earn it.
Saturn as 9th and 10th Lord
Saturn is the horns of the Bull.
Saturn, as the 9th and 10th lord, is the Taurus native’s ability to do
what must be done. As the 9th lord and an angle lord, Saturn
becomes a great temporal benefic and a yogakaraka that gives the
native direction, purpose and fortune in their career and activities. As
a natural malefic however, Saturn delays career success which grows
better as one ages, as well as causing separation from those areas it
influences due to one’s beliefs or career objectives. In either case,
Saturn is a planet of dharma who very much believes in simply doing
those right few things; yama, niyama, the 10 commandments, etc.
GEMINI LAGNA
Sun as 3rd Lord
The Sun is the skilled hands of the Twins.
The Sun, as the 3rd lord, is the skills, talents, and abilities of the
human race which Gemini so well personifies. The Sun gives the
Gemini native original skills and an individual mark to each native’s
talents. Under the influence of Mars it gives athletic ability and
mechanical skills, under the influence of Venus it gives artistry. Due
to ruling the 3rd house, the Sun is a temporal malefic that may exhibit
behavior that is self-willed in the pursuit of its desires. As a natural
malefic, the Sun may separate the native from those things it
influences due to the native’s selfishness or their focus on things that
are more interesting to them.
Moon as 2nd Lord
The Moon is the familial closeness of the Twins.
The Moon, ruling the 2nd house, inclines the Gemini native
towards familial closeness. The Moon also indicates the need for
close friends.

136

Vault of the Heavens

The Moon as the 2nd lord also represents the changeable
attachment the Gemini native has to their possessions. While a
possession fulfills a need or is interesting, it is important, after that it
is all but forgotten. The Moon rules wealth for the Gemini native,
and as a vaishya, gives commercial ability with which to earn wealth.
The Moon also gives ease in speaking and generally makes them
skilled speakers. As the 2nd lord, the Moon is a temporal neutral and
other factors influencing the 2nd lord will determine whether the
native acquires and uses his resources in a self-centered or dharmic
manner. As a natural benefic, the bright Moon gives a productive use
of one’s resources, and considerate speech that nets those things the
Moon is influencing. As a natural malefic, the dark Moon tends to
cause less verbal intimacy, which may lead to some difficulties with
the things the Moon is influencing.
Mars as 6th and 11th Lord
Mars is the Man with the Club.
Mars, as the 6th and 11th lord, is the aggressive nature of the
Gemini native that will not hesitate to fight their way to success. As
the 6th and 11th lord, and the producer of accidents and enemies,
Mars is a planet of extreme violence, accidents, frustration and
enmity for the Gemini rising. It gives impulse and recklessness in
seeking one’s goals. Mars gives a competitive nature and great
physical and martial skills. Mars also gives the will and strength that
leads to success in, and gains through, athletics and competitions. As
a natural malefic and the lord of the 6th house, Mars creates a lot of
struggles and opposition to the successful conclusion of their greatest
desires. Due to ruling two malefic houses, Mars becomes a most
terrible temporal malefic, that unless there are alleviating factors, may
create selfishness and ruthlessness in obtaining one’s ends.
Mercury as 1st and 4th Lord
Mercury is the human sensitivity of the Twins.
Mercury, as the 1st and 4th lord, gives the Gemini native a natural
capacity for inner self-examination; Mercury gives them an impartial

House Lords

137

eye with which to view themselves, emotionally and behaviorally.
Mercury lets them know that their mental state is very much
responsible for their happiness and physical well-being. Afflicted,
Mercury may give nervousness that greatly affects the health. As a
planet of the intellect, Mercury gives the ability to influence the body
and health by exercising the intellect over the mood and attitude.
Mercury is responsible for creating a strong connection with the
mother, which is usually friendly. Mercury, ruling these two houses,
causes the environment to be important to the native’s well-being
and focus. Due to ruling the lagna, Mercury is a temporal benefic
which serves to place the native in his rightful niche and in so doing
gives happiness and mental peace. Afflicted Mercury may cause
emotionally based anxieties that damage the health. As a natural
benefic, Mercury gives an adaptable, skillful, and intelligent
personality that allows them to develop and enjoy those things that
Mercury is influencing in the horoscope.
Jupiter as 7th and 10th Lord
Jupiter is human idealism of the Twins
Jupiter, as the 7th and 10th lord, represents the desire for a noble
career that has the capacity to give status. Jupiter becomes a very
powerful planet for status and professional success by ruling these
two houses, both of which are significant for the career. Jupiter gives
skill in career partnerships and indicates that marriage may somehow
improve the career or status. Jupiter gives the Gemini native a
capacity to give something great through their careers. Jupiter is very
much a planet of presenting themselves well to the world, this is
usually done in noble ways, the motivation though, may be either
egocentric or more dharmic. Due to ruling two angles, Jupiter is a
temporal neutral, career and partnership goals may be obtained in a
selfish or dharmic manner. As a natural benefic, Jupiter offers plenty
of opportunity with which to make a success of partnerships and
career.

138

Vault of the Heavens

Venus as 5th and 12th Lord
Venus is the Woman with the Lute.
Venus, as the 5th and 12th lord, gives the Gemini native a natural
creative capacity with which to have an affinity with others; this
makes them artists of the finest type. Venus also gives a romantic
mentality and strong devotional capacity. Venus gives some artistic
pride, but not an empty pride, but one of recognizing beauty when
they see it. Venus allows them to create beauty that others could
never conceptualize and only dream off. Venus ruling the 5th causes
the Gemini native to love the process of being creative. Venus also
gives an avenue of escape through romance, education or spiritual
practices. Due to its 5th house lordship, Venus is a temporal benefic,
though as the 12th lord it may give some expense on account of
romance, children, education, and their creative pursuits. As a natural
benefic, Venus gives happiness and pleasures from those things it
influences due to the native’s intelligence, and the ability to surrender
and let things go when necessary.
Saturn as 8th and 9th Lord
Saturn is the human dogmatism of the Twins
Saturn, as the 8th and 9th lord, represents the typical human
behavior of seeking spiritually as a result of crisis and difficulties. For
Gemini, Saturn is planet of developing faith and religion due to
confrontation with mortality. Saturn gives a great need to develop a
meaningful belief system in order to deal with the crisis that are a
natural part of burning the results of one’s karmas. Saturn is very
much a planet of penance and suffering which the Gemini native
must undergo before discovering the truth they seek. Saturn, ruling
the 8th house of vulnerability, also indicates some vulnerability in
their faith, which only time will deepen. This vulnerability may be a
source of dogmatism. Saturn, being a delaying factor, indicates that
their spiritual life is stronger later in life, preference instead is placed
on developing their skills in the early life. The 8th house lordship also
makes their fortune somewhat unsteady, particularly in the earlier
years, and generally causes some instability or crisis with the father as

House Lords

139

well. As the moolatrikona is the 9th house, and the 9th house is also
the strongest trine, Saturn is a temporal benefic. There is more of an
emphasis placed on faith, religion, etc, than on the immoralities,
difficulties, etc., indicated by the 8th house, it is just that usually those
difficulties necessarily serve to motivate the spiritual life. As a natural
malefic Saturn, serves to separate the native from those things it
influences due to their need to grow in wisdom and detachment.
CANCER LAGNA
Sun as 2nd Lord
The Sun is the Crabs possessiveness, in fact they clean the beach
of every item they can fit into their holes.
The Sun, as the 2nd lord, gives the Cancer native a strong
identification with their possessions, family, and name. It is holding
onto these things that are responsible for the bulkiness of Cancer. As
the 2nd lord, the Sun is a temporal neutral, as they may go about
managing these things selfishly or righteously, depending upon the
other factors influencing the Sun. As a natural malefic however, the
Sun may separate them from things on account of developing a
professional name, or on account of their family’s status.
Moon as 1st Lord
The Moon is the soft insides of the Crab.
The Moon, as the lagna lord, indicates the Cancer native’s
emotionally centered, comforting, and changeable personality. How
the native feels about herself is of extreme importance to those with
Cancer lagna. Any insecurities will quickly lead to depressions and
emotionally centered illnesses. As the Lagna lord, the Moon is a
temporal benefic and generally allows them to find a place in life that
is comforting and secure to them. If afflicted, then they will find it
almost impossible to have any happiness in the world. As a natural
benefic, the bright Moon tends to further their growth and success
through gentle, patient care, and gives contentment, provided it is not
afflicted. As a natural malefic, the dark Moon tends to cause some
lack of caring for those external things and a more introverted nature,

140

Vault of the Heavens

contentment will come from more inner processes, and less care will
be taken to nurture external things, which, as a result, will not be as
successful.
Mars as 5th and 10th Lord
Mars is the powerful and tenacious claws of the Crab.
Mars, as the 5th and 10th lord, represents the Cancer native’s
powerful discriminative mentality with which to guide their actions,
and their mental tenacity. These cause “luck” to fall on their
activities. Mars is a yogakaraka that gives a high degree of intelligence
operating towards the benefit of their career. Mars provides them
with strength derived from intuitive knowledge as well. Ruling the 5th
and 10th house, Cancer will fight for their career, children and
students. Mars is a temporal benefic and the best planet for the
Cancer native. As a natural malefic, Mars may cause some conflict
with those things that contradict what they rightly perceive they must
do.
Mercury as 3rd and 12th Lord
Mercury is the Crab’s sideways movement and lack of vocal cords.
Mercury ruling the house of ears and information, and the 12th
house of hidden things, and being the planet of speech inclines the
Cancer native towards secrecy in speech, also making it difficult for
them to communicate clearly or fully. Ruling the 3rd house, Mercury
makes them good listeners and they are always curious, but the 12th
lordship keeps their response often hidden. Mercury becomes a
temporal malefic, due to the 3rd house lordship, and gives them a
cleverness with which to fulfill their desires, this will rarely be direct
as the 12th house will always keep something unrevealed. As a natural
benefic Mercury gives skills and a rational intelligence to further their
goals. Mercury is particularly a planet of foreign travel, which Cancer
represents, and indicates a talent for exploration and foreign trade.
Jupiter as 6th and 9th Lord
Jupiter is the Crab’s lack of aggressiveness.

House Lords

141

Jupiter, as the 6th house of enemies and the 9th house of the
teacher and wisdom, gives Cancer a peaceful and forgiving attitude.
This causes them to learn from their enemies and difficulties rather
than to fight. Ruling the house of spiritual life and the house of work,
Jupiter gives a capacity for Karma yoga. Jupiter also gives knowledge
for overcoming difficulties and makes their hard work pay off with
the gain of their fortune. Ruling the 6th house of enemies and the 9th
house of father, Jupiter inclines them to have less attachment to the
father, but since Jupiter is a benefic there will not be any trouble with
the father, unless of course there are other afflictions indicating so.
Jupiter rules one benefic house and one malefic house, but as its
benefic house is the most powerful trine, Jupiter is a temporal
benefic. As a natural benefic ruling the 6th house, Jupiter provides his
grace sometimes freely but usually after effort is made.
Venus as 4th and 11th Lord
Venus is the Crab’s seashore, where he sits not alone, but with
other crabs.
Venus as the 4th and 11th lord represents the Cancer native’s desire
for luxury, particularly with respect to the home. Venus makes them
socially active and inclines them to look for happiness with their
peers. They tend to be proud of and love their titles, home, mother,
associations, and ancestry. Venus becomes a temporal malefic due to
ruling the 11th house, and indicates those external things the native
may desire in order to feel inwardly fulfilled. As a natural benefic
however, Venus gives them a social grace that gains them what they
need.
Saturn as 7th and 8th Lord
Saturn is the Crab’s shell.
Ruling the 8th house of vulnerability and the 7th house of partners,
Saturn brings out a lot of insecurities and codependence in the
Cancer native. In order to protect oneself Saturn will put up a wall of
protection that may manifest as coldness or indifference until trust
has been developed. Saturn, by ruling the 7th house, indicates that

142

Vault of the Heavens

relationships will get better as one ages and becomes more secure,
and therefore more capable of trusting. Being a planet of lack and
ruling the partner and the partner’s resources, Saturn generally
indicates that a lot of struggles will be required to make a relationship
improve the quality of life. It may, however, give financial gain due to
marriage, but usually as the result of the termination of the
relationship or with a high emotional price attached. Saturn basically
forces the native to get more secure as a result of relationships. Much
of the Cancer native’s karmas are worked out in partnerships or
through chronic diseases that are the result of Saturn ruling the 8th
house of chronic disease and being himself a disease producer.
Diseases will always have an emotional link, since the 7th house being
the 4th from the 4th also relates to the inner life as well as does the 8th
house.
With Saturn ruling two neutral houses one would expect him to
be a temporal neutral, Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra, however, states
that a planet ruling the 8th house as well as the 7th house becomes
extremely malefic. In some sense though, I think that Saturn for
Cancer could almost be considered neutral, but since he creates needs
arising out of fear, he behaves selfishly, but not willingly or
consciously so, as do the 3rd and 11th lords. Ruling the 7th house, a
maraka or death inflicting house, and the 8th house of death and
longevity, and being himself the producer of death, Saturn is a
powerful killer. Ruling the 8th house of crisis and breaks and as the
natural significator of loss, Saturn is sure to cause difficult events.
LEO LAGNA
Sun as 1st Lord
The Sun is the Lions noble and inspirational personality.
The Sun, as the lagna lord, endows the Leo lagna with power and
magnetism that comes from being centered in the self. All planets
revolve around the Sun benefiting from its light. Similarly the Sun for
Leo lagna gives the light of inspiration through a dynamic and
inspirational personality. The Sun also gives a personality that
requires a lot of space. Ruling the lagna, the Sun is a first rate

House Lords

143

temporal benefic and gives the natives the quality of magnetizing to
them that which they need to fulfill their destiny. As a natural
malefic, the Sun may separate them from those things that would
restrict their personalities and diminish their luster.
Moon as 12th Lord
The Moon is the Lion’s den, the Lion basking in the Sun, as well
as the thorn in his paw, his hidden sensitivity.
The Moon, as the 12th lord, indicates that retreat and seclusion are
necessary for the Leo native’s mental and emotional well-being. The
sensitive feelings, emotions, and care hidden behind the dignified
personality are represented by the Moon. The Moon gives a strong
desire for rest, as well as a spiritually contemplative and meditative
mentality in the horoscope of a spiritual nativity. The Moon is
temporally neutral due to ruling the 12th house. Bright it gives, but
expensively or through lengthy investments. The Moon is also
socially active, though usually extravagant or expensively so. Dark,
the Moon tends towards greater mental introversion and retreat.
Mars as 4th and 9th Lord
Mars is the Lion’s heart and his territorial nature.
Mars, as the 4th and 9th lord, gives inner strength and courage
through wisdom, belief, and ideals. Mars gives them the strength to
fight for and protect, law, ideals and home. Mars also gives the
journeys that widen the Leo native’s domain. Ruling both an angle
and a trine, Mars is a yogakaraka and the most auspicious planet for
the Leo native. As a natural malefic, Mars gives his fortune through
will and effort, and creates the potential for conflict with others in
respect to ideals and beliefs.
Mercury as 2nd and 11th Lord
Mercury is the Lion’s addresses as lord of the jungle.
Mercury, as the 2nd and 11th lord, causes the Leo native to support
his personality through his eloquence and to speak about his own
success and honor. Mercury is also the titles easily grasped that

144

Vault of the Heavens

provide the Leo native with name. Mercury rules the two houses
relating most significantly to wealth and therefore gives great ability
for trade and commerce. Ruling the 11th and 2nd houses, Mercury
may give egocentricity in gaining possessions and desires and is
therefore temporally malefic. As a natural benefic, Mercury gives
practical skills and talents with which to gain wealth and fulfill the
native’s desires.
Jupiter as 5th and 8th Lord
Jupiter is the Lion’s Pride (meaning his cubs; his creations) and
generosity.
Ruling the house of creativity and the house of death and
longevity, Jupiter gives the creative intelligence to create things that
last after death, as well as to create those things that break taboos;
witness Mozart who has done both. Ruling the houses of knowledge
and the occult, and being a planet of knowledge, Jupiter gives a
natural capacity for occult knowledge as well as transforming spiritual
practices. Jupiter, as the 5th and 8th lord, inclines the native to share
his luck with others as well as giving others the benefits of his
knowledge. Jupiter also has the capacity to give sudden wealth
through speculations, although the 8th house makes the wealth and
luck somewhat unsteady. Due to the 5th house lordship, Jupiter is a
temporal benefic. Sharing his lordship with the 8th lord causes Jupiter
to create transitions and crisis that come, hand in hand, with
knowledge and insight. As a natural benefic, Jupiter inclines the Leo
native towards gain, though reckless at times, and the 8th lordship will
at times cause Jupiter to destroy things, but then he will offer a
greater inspiration instead.
Venus as 3rd and 10th Lord
Venus is the Lion’s pride (meaning his ego).
Venus, ruling the 3rd and 10th house, gives cause for pride due to
the native’s talents and status. Being a benefic and ruling the 3rd
house of effort and the 10th house of karma or action, Venus gives a
lazy pride that does not want to exert itself. Venus also gives a

House Lords

145

dramatic flair to the Leo native’s actions and in so doing gives a great
ability to showoff, which they quite enjoy, and which may also help
them in dramatic and artistic pursuits. Due to the 3rd house lordship,
Venus becomes temporally malefic and tends to give selfcenteredness in regards towards one’s actions and interests, as a
natural benefic however, Venus indicates talents and diplomacy in
their actions with which to further things along.
Saturn as 6th and 7th Lord
Saturn is the Lion’s mate, she who does the hunting.
Ruling the 6th house of service and the 7th house of spouse and
partners, Saturn is the Leo native’s strong tendency to be served and
have other’s do the hard, or grunge work. The 6th house is also the
house of divorce, or loss of, and through partnerships. This, paired
with the 7th house of spouse and partners, makes them not very well
equipped to work in partnerships, but Saturn, the lord of Karma,
gives little choice in the matter as long as there is any need to learn.
The 6th house is also the house of debt and karma yoga, so Saturn
may give karmic debts that need to be paid to a partner, or society, in
which case developing a karma yoga mentality in these areas is
beneficial. At best, Saturn may give service through impersonal
relationships. Saturn generally gives delays in fulfilling partnership
needs. Partnerships are where the Leo native will generally feel most
insecure and that is where they will have to confront their
insecurities. In this instance the lordship of an Upachaya (the 6th
house) gives effort and growth with which to make partnerships
improve with age as one learns, and as one pays off any karmic debts
to their partners. Due to the 6th house lordship, Saturn becomes a
temporal malefic and may create selfishness with others, as well as
being indicative of the bad karma one has merited that comes
through the agency of a partner or enemy. Witness again Mozart,
who’s downfall and poverty was the result of a fellow composer who
even assisted him while engineering his demise. Mozart had the
Lagna lord Sun, Mercury, lord of wealth and Saturn all in the 6th

146

Vault of the Heavens

house; the Dasa/Bukti of Sun/Saturn ruined him financially and
killed him physically.
VIRGO LAGNA
Sun as 12th Lord
The Sun is the Virgin’s physical weakness.
The Sun, as the 12th lord, represents the Virgo native’s weak
vitality and hidden personality. As the 12th lord, the Sun may cause
expense on account of the body. The Sun is a temporal neutral, and
other factors influencing the Sun will indicate whether the native has
hidden idealistic sides, or self-centered motivations. As a separating
factor, the Sun, as the 12th lord, may cause them to be separated from
things due to expenses or physical liability.
Moon as 11th Lord
The Moon is the Water the Virgin is crossing in the Boat.
The Moon, as the 11th lord, indicates the Virgo native’s socially
minded mentality and desire to be with like-minded individuals. The
Moon gives some need to be appreciated by others for their
successes. The 11th lordship of the Moon causes the Moon to be a
temporal malefic that may exhibit some selfish neediness. As a
natural benefic, the bright Moon gives the talent and networking
capacity to gain what is desired. As a natural malefic, the dark Moon
gives discontented desires and social discontent.
Mars as 3rd and 8th Lord
Mars is the Oars of the Boat.
Mars, as the 3rd and 8th lord, represents the transmutation of the
Virgo native’s desire nature. Mars ruling the 3rd house gives a strong
desire nature that will not hesitate to use strength or aggression to
fulfill ones desires. The 8th house lordship, however, creates
difficulties to this thereby breaking the native’s desires and
egocentricity, purifying them. Mars also gives a penetrating mind and
a talent for deep research. Due to the 3rd house lordship, Mars is a
temporal malefic with a very self-centered nature, additionally, as the

House Lords

147

8th lord and a natural malefic, Mars is neither helpful to the native’s
well-being or that of others, except to the degree that it destroys
egocentric qualities.
Mercury as 1st and 10th Lord
Mercury is the Virgin’s self-effort.
Mercury, as the 1st and 10th lord, represents the Virgo native’s
identification with their karmas and career. Mercury, being presided
by Vishnu and ruling the 10th house, inclines the Virgo native to do
work that is of assistance or service to others. Mercury gives them the
ability to improve themselves through their karmas. Due to ruling the
lagna, Mercury is a temporal benefic who’s duty it is to find
productive work with which to throw themselves into. As a natural
benefic, Mercury gives the native skills, intelligence and a balanced
personality that allows them to find fulfillment in those areas that
Mercury is influencing.
Jupiter as 4th and 7th Lord
Jupiter is the Virgin’s Chastity.
Chastity is a woman’s ability to never go outside herself to fulfill
her needs, which comes from being feminine and receptive, which
happens to the extent that she keeps her mind centered in her heart.
A woman’s chastity protects her by letting her discriminate between
what feels good and what doesn’t. Without this ability she soon find
herself in romantic situations where she is not fully respected. Jupiter,
as the 4th lord of feeling and the 7th lord of sexual relations, indicates
the Virgo native’s ability for chastity.
Jupiter also indicates the Virgo native’s capacity to find happiness
through others, but largely through being of gain to others. Due to
ruling two angles, Jupiter is temporally neutral and other factors
influencing Jupiter will determine if one’s efforts towards happiness
and partnerships are more self-centered or dharmic in nature.
Venus as 2nd and 9th Lord
Venus is the Boat.

148

Vault of the Heavens

Venus, as the 2nd and 9th lord, gives the Virgo native a love for
spiritual or lawful values that they are righteously proud of. Venus is
a planet of luxury, fortune and great wealth for the native. Due to the
9th house lordship, Venus becomes a temporal benefic and is
particularly a planet of speaking the truth in a most diplomatic and
well-mannered fashion. As a natural benefic, Venus indicates the
proper use of resources that result in the fortune that allows the
native to enjoy those areas it influences.
Saturn as 5th and 6th Lord
Saturn is the Crop in the woman’s hand.
Saturn, as the 5th and 6th lord, may give joy from work, but not
usually until the native has aged somewhat and grown to realize that
since there is not a lot they can gain here, they might as well be of
service as they improve themselves. And this is just what Saturn is for
the Virgo native, a planet of practical improvement through effort,
and that includes spiritual efforts as well, since Saturn rules the 5th
house of spiritual practices. Due to ruling the 6th house of disease and
the 5th house, which is the 12th house from the 6th, giving loss of
disease, Saturn gives Virgo their famous healing abilities. Ruling the
5th house of spiritual practices and the 6th house of work and service
causes Saturn to become a qualified karma yogi planet. Saturn is very
much a planet of work that must be done as a spiritual service. Saturn
rules one malefic house and one benefic house, but since the 5th and
6th lords on mutual angles is said to be a good yoga, Saturn alone
qualifies as a temporal benefic for the Virgo native. As a natural
malefic however, Saturn may cause separation from those things it
influences due to duty or restraint, and it also a planet of restricted
luck, if any. Luck, in fact, is the result of the native’s efforts.
LIBRA LAGNA
Sun as 11th Lord
The Sun is the Gold in the Scale.
The Sun, as the 11th lord, is what the Libra native desires to gain
in this life. As the 11th lord, the Sun is a temporal malefic and

House Lords

149

indicates those desires the native thinks he is in most need of
fulfilling and which he may pursue to the exclusion of all else.
Ultimately what they hope to gain is the self, but first they must
trample through a world of desires. As a natural malefic, the Sun may
separate the native from the areas it affects due to other more
desirable goals.
Moon as 10th Lord
The Moon is the Bazaar.
The Moon, as the 10th lord, inclines the Libra native towards a
career that is somehow of social benefit. The Moon also gives a
changeable profession that has the flexibility to change as the times
and needs change. The career life is generally comforting to the
native, although, if the Moon is afflicted it may indicate imbalances in
their work, burn out, workaholic, etc. As an angular lord, the Moon is
temporally neutral and other factors influencing the Moon will
determine the manner in which the native fulfills their career
objectives. As a natural benefic, the bright Moon is a performer of
good karmas that allows for the flowering of those areas it influences.
As a natural malefic, the dark Moon causes the native’s actions and to
lack the care necessary to maintain or produce those things the Moon
is influencing, as well as indicating that the career may drain other
areas of life that the Moon is influencing.
Mars as 2nd and 7th Lord
Mars is the Merchant’s possessions, which other’s consider
valuable.
Mars, as the 2nd and 7th lord, inclines the Libra native to be
possessive of their partners, but not necessarily in a negative way, and
the linkage of the 2nd and 7th houses is good for marriage. Mars gives
passionate tastes and shows that wealth may come from partnerships
or after marriage. In any case, Mars inclines the native towards
productive partnerships, whether romantic or business in origin.
Mars is temporally neutral and other factors influencing Mars will

150

Vault of the Heavens

indicate whether the native’s pursuits in relationships and wealth are
achieved in a more self-centered manner or in a nobler manner.
Mercury as 9th and 12th Lord
Mercury is the priceless, exotic and rare items the Merchant has
for sale.
Mercury, as the 9th and 12th lord, indicates spiritual knowledge and
practical faith that understands the benefits of surrender when
necessary. Mercury also gives the talent for foreign commerce. Due
to its 9th house lordship, Mercury is a temporal benefic and gives the
wisdom and discrimination to know what to hold onto and what to
let go of. As a natural benefic, Mercury gives skills, and intelligence
with which to make their fortunes.
Jupiter as 3rd and 6th Lord
Jupiter is the Merchant’s increase in profits.
Jupiter, as the 3rd and 6th lord, ruling two upachayas and as a
planet of wealth, may give an increase of wealth throughout life. Due
to ruling the 3rd and 6th house, Jupiter is a temporal malefic and
reveals a selfish desire towards those things it influences, but as a
natural benefic, and a noble one at that, one will not pursue these
unscrupulously. Bhavartha Ratnakara states that for Libra lagna,
Jupiter creates a raja yoga. Why is not said, but this small classic is full
of unusual gems that work in actual practice so we should not judge
Jupiter to harshly for the Libra native and even though it rules two
evil houses it may give upliftment in life. As a natural benefic, Jupiter
ruling these two houses of strength and effort gives a peaceful and
not forceful nature and its 6th house lordship gives forgiveness, not
enmity. Jupiter, being a natural benefic, also gives fulfillment in the
areas it influences, but largely through work and effort.
Venus as 1st and 8th Lord
Venus is the Man in the Bazaar.
Venus, as the 1st and 8th lord, indicates that the native will
undergo radical changes in life as they find themselves on a deeper

House Lords

151

level. These will largely be due to desires awakened in the heart
through Venus. Venus also gives an attachment and identification
with other's resources. As the lagna lord, Venus is a temporal benefic,
which, through diplomacy and worldly wisdom, finds the native a
place in life. The 8th house lordship, however, makes this somewhat
unstable, but then Libra is a moveable rasi, and changes are indicated
in life. Being a natural benefic as well, Venus gives comfort and
happiness with the areas it is influencing, but again the 8th house
lordship gives this an element of the unexpected.
Saturn as 4th and 5th Lord

Saturn is the Scale.
Saturn, as the 4th and 5th lord, becomes a yogakaraka by ruling an
angle as well as a trine and the best temporal benefic for the Libra
native. Saturn gives a very practical, intelligent mindset, patience, and
a cold, analytical and discriminative mind when needed. Saturn gives
the mental balance and poise to make correct decisions, but this is a
skill that is learned throughout life; it can be said that Libra knows
how to learn from their errors. Linking the 4th house of the inner
mind and feelings with the 5th house of intelligence, Saturn becomes
capable of creating a very balanced mentality, but only after one has
conquered fear and insecurity. Saturn as well gives the dignity
appreciated by the common man, which makes them qualified for
public office. As a natural malefic, Saturn may serve to separate one
from the areas it influences due to a greater need for long term
happiness or one’s long term highest good.
SCORPIO LAGNA
Sun as 10th Lord
The Sun is the stone the Scorpion hides under, and which affords
protection.
The Sun represents the Scorpio native’s strong identification with
the karmas they perform in this life, for they understand that it is that
which will make them. This manifests as an important relationship to
their career, or employer and the status these bring. The Sun inclines

152

Vault of the Heavens

them to work for someone of status or whom they respect, but also
may give a strong inspiration to acquire status of their own making.
Ruling an angle, the Sun becomes a temporal neutral and other
factors influencing the Sun will determine in which manner the native
will achieve his professional objectives. As a natural malefic the Sun
will separate the native from those things it influences due to their
professional concerns.
Moon as 9th Lord
The Moon is the Scorpion’s luminescence.
The Moon, as the 9th lord, represents the Scorpio native’s spiritual
mindedness. They have a natural aptitude for perceiving truth. The
Moon indicates that their beliefs are dependent upon their attitude.
They seek comfort in knowledge, wisdom, spirituality, and
philosophy. Due to ruling the 9th house, the Moon becomes the
greatest benefic for the Scorpio native. As a natural benefic, the
bright Moon gives pleasant fortune while recognizing grace and
indicates the native’s capacity to further things along due to their
understanding. As a natural malefic, the dark Moon tends toward
more philosophical pondering.
Mars as 1st and 6th Lord
Mars is the poison in the Scorpion’s tail.
Mars, as the 1st and 6th lord, represents the great energy with
which the Scorpio native overcomes and improves their personal
weaknesses and vulnerabilities. This also creates great strength to
fight external obstacles, which once destroyed and overcome, give
strength to the native. Mars also tends to make the native very
aggressive when confronted, and also makes for a very hard worker,
and inclining them towards service professions. Mars gives a natural
talent for military and medical professions, especially those medical
professions involving chemicals, needles, cutting, drilling, etc. Mars
makes them fight for their own well-being and to destroy opposition.
Ruling the lagna, Mars is responsible for placing the native in his
rightful place. The 6th house lordship makes this task one of struggle

House Lords

153

as the native works out any weaknesses. The 6th house being an
upachaya, however, indicates that the native’s position in life will
improve throughout life. Mars is also a planet of austerity that may
lead to great personal development. Due to ruling one benefic house,
the lagna, and one malefic house, the 6th house, Mars becomes a
temporal malefic according to Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra. Since
Mars is the lagna lord, it is nevertheless important for finding the
native his niche, and therefore of benefit to the native, even if it does
so with difficulty. As a natural malefic, Mars indicates struggles and
difficulties in life that are the result of the native’s strong attachment
to their personal thoughts and ideas.
Mercury as 8th and 11th Lord
Mercury is the crevices the Scorpion dwells in.
Mercury, as the 8th and 11th lord, represents the desires the
Scorpio native needs to transmute. Mercury is a planet of dealing
with others in order to fulfill one’s desires. Mercury gives gains from
other’s resources and it is Mercury that gives the “politician”
reputation to the native. Ruling the evil 11th house along with the
difficult 8th house makes Mercury the greatest temporal malefic for
the Scorpio native and may incline them to pursue their goals in not
so socially acceptable ways, or at worst involve them in underhanded
activities. But these pursuits will usually benefit those who are
involved, as Mercury does indicate fairness and friends. As a natural
benefic, Mercury gives the ability for negotiation that can help them
get what they want.
Jupiter as 2nd and 5th Lord
Jupiter is the Scorpion’s protection from its own poison.
Jupiter as the 2nd and 5th lord is a planet of great intuitive
intelligence. Jupiter gives a natural speaking ability, great memory and
skills in predictive sciences and counseling. Jupiter is also a planet of
lucky money and speculative luck, as well as giving a knack for
manifesting that which they need. Their creative ability allows for
material productivity as well. Due to the 5th house lordship Jupiter is

154

Vault of the Heavens

a temporal benefic and as a natural benefic as well, Jupiter is very
much a planet of grace that protects them from material difficulties.
Venus as 7th and 12th Lord
Venus is the Scorpion’s avid mating, and the possible self sacrifice
to their spouse.
Venus, as the 7th and 12th lord, is the karma the Scorpio native is
to complete with their partners. Venus may give some loss and
expense on account of partners as well as strong attractions towards
certain members of the opposite sex that pulls them into the
relationships they need in order to complete and resolve their karmas.
Ruling two neutral houses, Venus is a temporal neutral, but one that
may give loss as the 12th lord. Venus may also cause loss of vitality
through sexual overindulgence. As a natural benefic, Venus gives
charm, a talent for fashionable trends, and the ability to make long
term investments that further the areas Venus is influencing.
Saturn as 3rd and 4th Lord
Saturn is the Scorpions pincers.
Saturn, as the 3rd and 4th lord, is a planet of emotional desire and
need that is very much controlled and protected. Saturn is basically
the insecure emotional ego of the Scorpio. Saturn gives tenacity and
controlling attitudes towards those things they expect fulfillment and
happiness from. Due to ruling the 3rd house, Saturn is a temporal
malefic and gives emotional self-centeredness, and as a natural
malefic, Saturn causes separation, lack and loss that are due to this
self-centeredness and neediness.
SAGITTARIUS LAGNA
Sun as 9th Lord
The Sun is the Centaur’s Bow, his noble weapon that is his
namesake (Dhanus).
The Sun as the 9th lord is the Sagittarius native’s identification
with their beliefs and ideals. The Sun indicates a virtuous, lawful,
spiritual or religious nature. The Sun gives a natural inspiration

House Lords

155

towards truth, knowledge and teaching, as well as independence in
searching for the same, making them natural self-teachers. Ruling the
9th house, the Sun becomes a great temporal benefic and is
specifically a planet of inspired dharma. As a natural malefic, the Sun
may separate the native from those things it influences as a sacrifice
to the pursuit of their dharma.
Moon as 8th Lord
The Moon is the Centaur’s incompleteness of being half-human
and half-horse, as well as his warrior mentality that accepts the
necessity of death.
The Moon is the Sagittarius native’s unsettled mentality and inner
discomfort that provokes him to look into the depth of things. The
Moon gives an innate ability for psychological analysis. The Moon
also gives the ability for the native to be at home in a world of
change, difficulties, and death as they have some sense of the
underlying need and harmony. They recognize that letting go and
moving past things are an essential part of gaining fortune,
knowledge and truth. Ruling the 8th house the Moon is a temporal
neutral. The gentle Moon is unable to bring about as much crisis as
other planets ruling the 8th house and thus Brihat Parashara Hora
Sastra states that the Moon as 8th lord is not harmful. This is
completely so in the event that the Moon is bright and thereby a
benefic, in which case she gives growth after changes. As a dark,
malefic Moon, however, the Moon may cause difficult and painful
breaks and unexpected loses, but ones that are generally easy to let go
of, since the Moon is quick to renew and heal.
Mars as 5th and 12th Lord
Mars is the Centaur’s arrows.
Mars, as the 5th and 12th lord, provides a natural capacity for selflearning. The mentality is active and imaginative, but logical. This
gives great tactical and mechanical abilities. Ruling the house of
spiritual practices and the house of liberation, Mars is a planet of
asceticism and secluded spiritual efforts. Mars gives mental power

156

Vault of the Heavens

and the knowledge of how to resolve an issue. Due to ruling the 5th
house, Mars is a temporal benefic for the Sagittarius native and gives
intelligence. As a natural malefic, Mars may cause some conflicts with
regards to what they know due to a lack of tact or patience.
Mercury as 7th and 10th Lord
Mercury is the Centaur’s charisma.
Mercury, as 7th and 10th lord, gives a natural capacity for
productive partnerships, particularly business partnerships. With this
lordship Mercury inclines one to desire a marriage that supports their
career, or one that gives status. Mercury also gives public success,
status, and the ability for public speaking. Professions may well
involve others. Mercury also balances work and play. Ruling two
angles Mercury is a temporal neutral, but as a natural benefic Mercury
gives professional skills and partners that support one’s endeavors.
Jupiter as 1st and 4th Lord
Jupiter is the Centaur’s body.
Jupiter, being a benefic ruling the 4th house of happiness and the
1st house of personality, gives a jovial, optimistic personality. Jupiter
gives a need for some purpose to their existence in order for the
native to be happy. Jupiter gives a strong affinity with their
homeland, making them patriots of the finest sort. There is also a
strong identification with the mother, with whom there is generally
some shared ideals and beliefs. Due to ruling the lagna, Jupiter is a
temporal benefic giving meaning and happiness to the Sagittarius
native’s life. As a natural benefic, Jupiter gives increase, fortune and
wisdom largely due to the native’s own abilities and manners.
Esoterically, Jupiter is the vehicle of the body, used for the spiritual
journey.
Venus as 6th and 11th Lord
Venus is the Centaur’s medals.
Venus, as the ruler of the 6th and 11th houses, gives the Sagittarius
native a tendency to become increasingly proud of their success.

House Lords

157

Venus ruling these houses may also cause overindulgence in the good
things their hard work has earned them. Due to these lordships,
Venus becomes a first rate temporal malefic, one that due to pride
will involve them in oppositions and competitions. As a natural
benefic ruling these houses, Venus gives them a tact and diplomacy
to turn difficulties into success, defeat into victory.
Saturn as 2nd and 3rd Lord
Saturn is the Centaur’s strong arms with which he aims his
arrows.
Saturn, ruling the 2nd house of possessions and the 3rd house of
the intellect, skills and talents, indicates the Sagittarius’ attachment to
their intellectual capacity and a resultant rigidity with which the
insecure ego protects its few precious bits. Saturn also gives precision
to the native’s intellect along with the ability to give a very orderly
presentation of ideas, making them great teachers. Unfortunately,
unless modifying factors are there, there will be a lot of rigidity and
attachment to these ideas, making them not the best of students,
however, they excel at learning from life's experiences. Ruling the
house of wealth and the house of effort, Saturn gives the ability to
acquire wealth through one’s own efforts. Often times this will be
lacking or there will be delays in obtaining it and there are some
lessons in manifesting wealth that the native is in need of learning.
Their family and younger siblings will generally be the areas where
they have to make some sacrifice or experience some suffering. Due
to ruling the 3rd house, Saturn becomes a temporal malefic and tends
to give some selfishness with what one’s efforts have earned them, or
with what they may hope to possess. As a natural malefic, Saturn
tends to cause separation and loss that is due to selfishness or lack of
needed resources.
CAPRICORN LAGNA
Sun as 8th Lord
The Sun is the Hinder Part of the Crocodile.

158

Vault of the Heavens

The Sun, as the 8th lord, indicates the working out of the
Capricorn native’s previous karmas, the purification of their spirit,
and developing detachment from that which they experience. The 8th
house is said to represent the karmas of the previous life, the Sun
ruling this house shows that the Capricorn native's identity is
particularly created by their previous karmas. The Sun, due to ruling
the 8th house of vulnerability, also indicates a vulnerable personality.
Due to ruling the 8th house, the Sun is a temporal neutral; those
karmas of the past that have created the identity may have been the
result of more malefic or more benefic tendencies. As a natural
malefic, the Sun may separate the native from those things it
influences that the native is required to break free from.
Moon as 7th Lord
The Moon is the face of the Deer.
The Moon, as the 7th lord, indicates that for the Capricorn native,
relationships are need-centered. Due to ruling the 7th house the
Moon is a temporal neutral and other factors influencing the Moon
will determine whether the native will be selfish in the pursuit of
these needs or balanced in their pursuit. As a natural benefic, the
bright Moon will give nurturing and growing qualities from, or with,
a partner that will support the areas of life influenced by the Moon.
As a natural malefic, the dark Moon indicates a lack of growth to
those areas it influences due to relationships and partnerships.
Mars as 4th and 11th Lord
Mars is the aggressiveness of the Crocodile.
Mars, as the 4th and 11th lord, represents the Capricorn native’s
aggressive nature in gaining security. Mars especially inclines them to
gain landed properties, which very much makes them feel secure in
the world. Mars inclines them to fight for land, ancestry, honor, and
titles. Due to ruling the 11th house, Mars becomes a powerful
temporal malefic that will selfishly fight its way to security and
perceived happiness. As a natural malefic, Mars will create struggles
and oppositions to their desires due to their aggressiveness, a well as

House Lords

159

emotional unhappiness due to their strong ideas of what they need in
order to be happy, which may prevent them from enjoying what is
given to them.
Mercury as 6th and 9th Lord
Mercury is the Goat’s fortune from carrying loads.
Mercury, as the 6th and 9th lord, and being the planet presided
over by Vishnu, gives the Capricorn native for practicing karma yoga.
The 6th house, being an upachaya, linked to the 9th house, indicates
that the native’s fortune increase, through Mercury, as they fulfill
their duties. Due to ruling the 9th house, Mercury is a temporal
benefic whose intent it is to do its work in a lawful manner, and as a
natural benefic, Mercury gives the gift of practical skills and wisdom
with which to make their fortunes.
Jupiter as 3rd and 12th Lord
Jupiter is the meekness of the Deer.
Jupiter, as the 3rd and 12th lord, represents the Capricorn native’s
meekness in pursuing the desires that are not security issues.
Jupiter also represents those desires that are a source of loss and
expense in one’s life, or the loss of those desires in order to generate
spirituality in the native. Jupiter inclines the Capricorn native to
undergo loss before seeking spiritually. Due to the 3rd house lordship,
Jupiter is a temporal malefic who has some egocentric desires, but its
12th house lordship causes these to come at a high price which brings
Jupiter’s spiritualizing nature to the surface. As a natural benefic,
Jupiter may give fulfillment for some time, but usually this is
expensive or not lasting, since the 12th lord separates the native from
those things it influences.
Venus as 5th and 10th Lord
Venus is the dignity of the goat.
Venus, as the 5th and 10th lord, gives a refined mentality that
assists the Capricorn native in their career pursuits. Venus gives a
dignity and intelligence with which to do good deeds with resulting

160

Vault of the Heavens

status and success. Venus gives the activities in life that the native’s
good deeds have merited, as well as the performance of good deeds
through which the native is acquiring merit. The quality of Venus will
indicate with what level of intelligence and understanding the native
is operating under. Venus gives pride of position and dignity and
ideally a career that the native loves and is proud of. Due to the 5th
house lordship, Venus becomes a temporal benefic, joined with the
10th house lordship Venus becomes a yogakaraka for the native, and
as a natural benefic, Venus gives ease in accomplishment through
diplomacy, and good decisions.
Saturn as 1st and 2nd Lord
Saturn is the Goat’s self-sufficiency.
Saturn, as the 1st and 2nd lord, gives the Capricorn native a
personal attachment and identification with their resources and
resourcefulness. This makes them very concerned with their material
affairs and responsibilities, including their family. Saturn also creates
a link between their diet and health. Saturn indicates some insecurity
about their self-worth, and as a delaying factor, usually indicates some
delay before the native finds their place in life and develops their
resources. Due to ruling the lagna, Saturn becomes a temporal
benefic which places the native in their proper place. As a natural
malefic, Saturn may separate the native from those areas it affects due
to the native’s responsibilities that only they can look after.
AQUARIUS LAGNA
Sun as 7th Lord
The Sun are those the Person carries the Pot to.
The Sun, as the 7th lord, indicates the Aquarius native’s
identification with others. A large part of the native’s identity is
created through their intimate associations and partners. Others serve
to give the native confidence. The Sun may give important activities
with groups consisting of like-minded individuals. Due to ruling an
angle, the Sun is a temporal neutral for the Aquarius native, as a

House Lords

161

natural malefic however, the Sun may separate the native from those
areas it affects due to public or personal involvement.
Moon as 6th Lord
The Moon is the lack of water in the Empty Pot, either that which
is not there, or that which was given out.
The Moon, as the 6th lord, gives the Aquarius native a weak selfimage and a mind that easily succumbs to depression. Since the 6th
house is an upachaya, the Moon indicates that the native will develop
a healthier self-image as they age, but in youth they are particularly
prone to suffer from social inadequacies as a result of their poor selfimage. The Moon ruling the 6th house also indicates a gentleness and
humanitarian mentality that prefers peace. Socially, the Moon
connects them to the lower classes and makes them ideal people of
the masses. As the 6th lord, the Moon is a temporal malefic and may
give opposition and struggles in life that results in the native feeling
depressed and empty. If this is severe, it may be a cause of addictions.
As a natural benefic, however, the bright Moon gives a care in work
that provides slow growth and improvement to the areas it
influences. As a natural malefic, the dark Moon gives struggles with
those things it influences with the result that the native does not feel
like their needs have been met.
Mars as 3rd and 10th Lord
Mars are the arms, strengthened from carrying the Pot.
Mars, as the 3rd and 10th lord, indicates the Aquarius native's
independent will and activities, as well as a strong attachment to
those things they think should be activated. Due to the 3rd house
lordship, Mars becomes a temporal malefic as the will he indicates is
usually one of selfish interest, one that resists authority, and wants to
do what it thinks should be done. Mars is the rebellious nature of the
Aquarius, which they are often known for. As a natural malefic, Mars
may cause conflict with authorities and associates, while also creating
conflict in the pursuit of their career and desires.

162

Vault of the Heavens

Mercury as 5th and 8th Lord
Mercury is the erupting of the Person’s true individuality.
Mercury, as the 5th and 8th lord, gives an original, ingenious
mentality and creativity that is not afraid to think of the unusual or
break social taboos. Mercury gives the capacity for the native to
become himself, without any judgments or harm directed towards
others. Mercury gives an innate talent for occult sciences and
counseling. Mercury also gives luck that may give unexpected
windfalls, although the native’s luck is usually unsteady due to the 8th
house lordship. Due to ruling the 5th house, Mercury becomes a
temporal benefic, though the 8th house lordship will often incline
them to express their finest in an unconventional manner. As a
natural benefic, Mercury gives the intelligence with which to make
the best of any situation.
Jupiter as 2nd and 11th Lord
Jupiter is the value of the Pot.
Jupiter, as the 2nd and 11th lord, represents the great gains possible
by an Aquarius native. Jupiter is a triple indicator of wealth; it rules
two houses of wealth and is the natural producer of wealth as well.
Jupiter, however, generally inclines the native to amass those things
that would indicate that they are of a valuable sort in order to make
up for any insufficiencies they may experience. Due to ruling the 11th
house, Jupiter is a temporal malefic that is intent on making name
and fame for itself, though generally by doing good deeds. As a
natural benefic, Jupiter makes the native generous with their wealth,
and this helps them manifest more wealth.
Venus as 4th and 9th Lord
Venus is the Pot.
Venus, as the 4th and 9th lord, is the devoted heart of the Aquarius
native. Once an ideal is found that fulfills the inner needs of the
native, they become solidly devoted and in fact proud of that which
they have found. This is not an empty pride, but one based on
recognition of something wonderful and truthful. Venus also

House Lords

163

indicates patriotic pride as well. Due to ruling the 9th house, Venus is
a temporal benefic for the Aquarius native. Sharing its lordship with
the 4th house, an angle, Venus becomes a yogakaraka for the
Aquarius native and the single best planet for them. As a natural
benefic, Venus is capable of giving easily acquired fortune and
happiness.
Saturn as 1st and 12th Lord
Saturn is the Person who is carrying the pot.
Saturn, as the 1st and 12th lord, gives the Aquarius native a
tendency towards loss of self, which can be great if there are spiritual
tendencies present allowing the native to cultivate spiritual
detachment and renunciation, otherwise this may manifest as great
personal wastage. Ruling the house of loss and being the planet of
loss, Saturn creates loss in the native’s life as a result of personal
indolence, or possibly renunciation. As the lagna lord, Saturn is a
temporal benefic, although as a delaying factor, Saturn will cause
delays in the native finding fulfillment until the native develops a
healthy self-esteem. As a natural malefic, Saturn will cause some
element of loss and separation, which the native themselves is
responsible for, either through a desire for renunciation or due to
ineptitude and lack of confidence.
PISCES LAGNA
Sun as 6th Lord
The Sun is the evolution of the Fish’s body.
The Sun, as the 6th lord, represents the physical karmas the Pisces
native has still to perform before transcending to another level of
evolution. The Sun also represents the physical attachments that the
native must learn to utilize for their spiritual benefit rather than for
their material well-being or pleasure. Due to ruling the 6th house, the
Sun is a temporal malefic and indicates any character weaknesses that
can disturb those areas it influences. At best the Sun can be utilized
to put their bodies to work for them spiritually as karma yogis.

164

Vault of the Heavens

Moon as 5th Lord
The Moon is the ocean the fish peer through.
The Moon, as the 5th house lord, gives the Pisces native an
intuitive, imaginative, receptive and sensitive mentality, and the ability
to discriminate through feeling. As the 5th lord, the Moon is a great
temporal benefic and gives luck, intelligence and a devotional mind.
As a natural benefic, the bright Moon gives luck, intelligence and
creativity that quickly allows things to grow and flower under their
touch. As a natural malefic, the dark Moon indicates a lack of growth
and creativity with those areas it influences due to the native not
putting their mind into these things because they don not expect their
needs to be met by them.
Mars as 2nd and 9th Lord
Mars is the divine fisherman’s sharp lure.
Mars, as the 2nd and 9th lord, is the Pisces native’s spiritual values
and a planet of wealth and fortune. Mars gives strength that stems
from one’s beliefs and the native is inclined to fight for family, ideals,
religion, honor of their name, and possessions. Due to ruling the 9th
house, Mars becomes a temporal benefic planet and gives the fortune
and grace that protects their material well-being during times of
struggle. As a natural malefic, Mars may cause conflict and
opposition due to their beliefs, which may be outspoken.
Mercury as 4th and 7th Lord
Mercury is the Fishes ability to communicate under water.
Mercury, as the 4th and 7th lord, is the happiness the Pisces native
is capable of enjoying with partners, due to the practical
understanding of other’s feelings and psychology. Mercury gives the
native the capacity for verbal intimacy with their partners.
Esoterically, Mercury gives breathing exercises that develop
concentration. Due to ruling two angles, Mercury is a temporal
neutral for the Pisces native and other factors influencing Mercury
will determine whether their pursuit of happiness and partnerships is
more self-centered or balanced.

House Lords

165

Jupiter as 1st and 10th Lord
Jupiter is the ripple of the Fishes activities.
Jupiter, as the 1st and 10th lord, creates a link between the nature
and position of the native and their karmas. Their karmas are very
much responsible for the self that is being created and expressed.
Jupiter also inclines them towards some noble career pursuit in which
they may personally shine. Due to ruling the lagna, Jupiter is a
temporal benefic. As a natural benefic, Jupiter gives expansion and
fortune that is the result of the native’s good actions, generosity and
virtue.
Venus as 3rd and 8th Lord
Venus is the Fishes endless swimming, necessary to oxygenate
their gills.
Venus, as the 3rd and 8th lord, represents the purification and
transformation of the Pisces native’s desires. Due to ruling the 3rd
house, Venus becomes a temporal malefic intent on fulfilling its
desires, though it does so irregularly, or with some suffering, due to
the 8th house lordship. Through this the native learns to detach from
and purify their desire nature. As a natural benefic, Venus gives talent
that serves them well, but again irregularly.
Saturn as 11th and 12th Lord
Saturn is the Two Fish Swimming in Opposite Directions.
Ruling the 11th house of gains and the 12th house of loss, Saturn
gives the Pisces native a dilemma regarding surrender, what to hold
onto and what to let go of. Pisces is the sign of resolution and it is
Saturn who determines what is being resolved. What is gained, is
gained in order to resolve the karmas pertaining to it, and then it is
lost. Since the Moolatrikona position of Saturn is the 12th house, the
house of loss, more is generally lost than gained. Saturn ruling these
two very different houses creates crisis at times that require
surrender. Though a cycle is coming to a close through Pisces, the
ego, in its last effort, tries to hold onto what it knows and may have
difficulty letting go. The 11th house is the 12th house from the 12th, so

166

Vault of the Heavens

it has some similar qualities as the 12th house and it specifically
indicates the ability of enjoying what one has gained with detachment
in order to bring about completion and liberation. This is the best
Saturn has to offer the Pisces native. Due to ruling the 11th house,
Saturn becomes a temporal malefic that may selfishly hold onto what
it has gained out of fear of loss, and as a natural malefic, and the
planet of loss ruling the house of loss, Saturn may give great losses
and separation.
IMPORTANT INFLUENCES TO A HOUSE LORD
The explanations for the house lords that have been given
consider that the planets are running true to form in regards to the
lagna. In actual practice, a planet that would generally behave badly
could be of excellent quality, and vice versa. In fact the most
naturally egocentric planet can operate with the greatest truth and
virtue, and vice versa, depending upon the entire structure of the
horoscope. What has been given is the natural quality of each planet,
dependent upon the lagna, to what degree it is expressing this quality
is a matter of careful judgment Following are factors that influence
how a house lord actually operates:
1. Stalling of effects by dominant house lords, as given in the
beginning of this chapter.
2. Dispositorship, as indicated in the chapter, “Dispositors.”
3. Influence of other planets in regards to their natural qualities, but
these influences only effect the qualities of the house lord. For
instance, the Moon indicates a desire for new possessions for the
Gemini lagna native, however, if Saturn joins the Moon, the
native will have old possessions.
THE LAGNA AND ITS CORRESPONDING HOUSE
The judgment of the Lagna and Lagna lord is of extreme
importance as they place the native in the world and create a
foundation for his life. The Lagna is an anchor of the horoscope. The
house that corresponds to the Lagna is also of extreme importance.

House Lords

167

This is the house that is the same as the number of the rasi of the
lagna. (For example, for Leo rising: Leo is the 5th rasi, therefore,
emphasis is placed on the 5th house and its lord, Jupiter). The
influences on this house are indicative of the native’s abilities that are
important for their success and well-being. The placement of the lord
of this house will also be indicative of important areas of focus.

Vault of the Heavens

:40
16 K

ra
ad
h
B
rva
u
P
dra
Bha

a
r
a
( Utt
25
*
26
Revati
27
'
1
,A
2
svinni
3
)

4
B
$
hari
ni
% 

Kr

itt
ika
R
oh
in
i

:4
-26
:20 H
13

M

ha
ht
es
Jy


ula
' M
a
18
,
Ashad
19
Purva
20 )
21 $Utta
raAshada
22
2
%
3


 Sr
24
avana
&
+  D

h

ani
S
sht
h
at
a
ab
i
sh
ak

L

20:00 F- 3:2
0
-1
6
:4
0 16
0:00 3:20 G
:40G
30

-1 3

K :40

0 23:20 I- 6:40-20
:0
0
10:00-23:2 6:40 J
20:
J
0
HI
40
3: 0 J
2
26: 0 I
0
K - 3:20
0
0
10:
-16

The 27 nakshatras and their planetary lords.

H :2 0

The Nakshatras

6:4 0-2

* Pu
shyami
'

A
,
sles

ha

M
ag
ha

F

5
6
7
8
9
10

ira
sh
a
rig
M


ra
& Ard

+
rvasu
(Puna

G :00 00

:0 0
-30

26
:
10 40 D
:0 0
E -

E
20
23: 40 F
6:

40 26:40 L- 10:0
0- 23:
13:20-26:
20
10:00 M
L

D

O

i
un
lg
ha
aP
rv
uni
alg
Pu

aPh
ttar
)
U
asta
$
11
H
12

13 %
14 &Chitra
15 +


1

6
S
17
wati
(
* 

V

isha


ka
A
nu
r
ad
ha

0
13:2
00-

-3
0 NO
0
:
20 :20
3

0 00-13:20 1
3:20
16:40-30:0
:40
-26:
6
1
D
O
40
:20

20
3:
-2
:00
10 E

23:
2
6:4 0 M
0N - 6
:4
0N 20:0
0

168

The Nakshatras

169

10
The Nakshatras
The nakshatras are a division of the zodiac into 27 portions, each
of 13 degrees and 20 minutes. Each nakshatra is compromised of
four padas of 3 degrees and 20 minutes each, equivalent to one
navamsa. Each nakshatra has its own presiding deity and is also
lorded by one of the nine planets, Sun through Ketu. The nakshatras
are the closest star based astrological factor we have; the names of
the nakshatras are based upon the prominent star falling in each
nakshatra. These prominent stars are the same as many of the fixed
stars utilized by Western Astrologers; the difference is that in Vedic
Astrology each nakshatra is a mathematical division of the zodiac, a
1/27 portion. This keeps the science mathematical, while benefiting
from stellar mythology. There are many myths revolving around the
27 nakshatras and their presiding deities, a study of which will reveal
many of the nakshatras' meanings.
Oftentimes there is a contradiction in the qualities and indications
of a nakshatra, and the qualities and indications of a rasi in which the
nakshatra falls. This may initially create some confusion and apparent
contradiction. It is hoped that the following explanations and points
will be helpful in discouraging any confusion:
1. The nakshatras are considered to be the wives of the Moon. In
Vedic mythology the wife of a deity represents the deity’s shakti, or
power. As the wives of the Moon, the nakshatras represent the
powers of the Moon. Of what sort are these powers? The Moon
indicates consciousness and that which grows as a result of what is in
the consciousness. In fact, the Moon's favorite nakshatra/wife is
Rohini, which means to grow, and which is presided by Prajapati, the
lord of creation. The nakshatras, therefore, indicate the powers of the

170

Vault of the Heavens

consciousness that creates growth. The growth of any planet or point is
dependent upon the nakshatra in which it falls.
2. The rasis indicate what is; the nakshatras indicate the powers of the
consciousness that grows what is.
3. The rasis are primarily used to divide the ecliptic into 12 parts,
thereby providing a framework for the different areas of life, the
houses. (As a side note, that is why the Rasi Chakra is given
preference over any of the bhava chakras). The 30 degree arc
constituting a rasi, is, in fact, primarily solar based and not dependent
upon any group of stars named Aries, etc, which often do not even
fall entirely into the 30 degree portions of the heavens allotted to the
rasi. Each 30 degree arc corresponds to the Sun’s movement in one
lunar month; there being 12 lunar months in a year. The rasis, being
solar based, have to do with the framework of the horoscope, just as
the Sun indicates the bones, the framework of the body, as well as
the body itself, the framework of life.
4. When we consider life, ultimately we are all the soul. The Sun
represents the Atman, the soul of all, the universal soul; it knows no
differentiation. The Moon indicates the DNA, and it is the DNA that
is responsible for the many variances and differences between
people. The lunar-based nakshatras, therefore, are helpful for adding
detail to the horoscope.
5. The nakshatras, are lunar based, corresponding roughly to one
days movement of the Moon. Being lunar based, the qualities of a
nakshatra are more reflective of the mentality and attitude influencing
a planet or point in the horoscope, while the rasis are more indicative
of what is being expressed and that which actually takes form. A
nakshatra is also indicative of many of the details pertaining to the
form indicated by the rasi.

The Nakshatras

171

6. Nakshatras can be practically utilized in providing an array of
details not given by the rasis. As a smaller division they can also finetune the indications derived from the rasis, but in no case do they
supercede those given by the rasis. They are useful for expanding and
detailing the indications so far derived through the rasis and planets.
7. The Sun is representative of the body, or form. The qualities of the
rasis, therefore, influence the very form and shape of those things
falling in them.
8. The Moon is representative of the blood, the flow of life through
the body represented by the Sun. The qualities of a nakshatra,
therefore, influence the flow of energy through the form. The
indications of a nakshatra are influenced by a planet in it due to a
change in the flow of energy through the rasi in which the nakshatra
falls. This change in energy flow has an effect on the indications of
the nakshatra, though the actual structure indicated by the nakshatra
is not effected by the planets falling in that nakshatra. This is
especially helpful in medical astrology. As an example let's take
Saturn falling at 27 degrees Aries: Saturn (the constricting, disease
producer) falling in 27 degrees Aries harms the head and brain, it
creates actual structural disorders with a resulting constriction in the
brain and head area. Then Saturn is as well falling in Krittika
nakshatra, governing the hips; therefore the life force to the hips is
constricted, though the actual hips may be well formed without any
structural defect.
9. The rasis indicate more what one aspires to, while the nakshatra
indicates what is more innate and familiar to the native. The
nakshatras also provide the power that one uses to reach their
aspirations.
10. When considering commercial or social activities, the nakshatra
qualities become more dominant, as the Moon is a vaishya and a

172

Vault of the Heavens

planet of social grace. When considering status, the qualities of the
rasis become more important, as the Sun is the king.
IMPORTANCE OF THE MOON
The Moon is the husband of the nakshatras. This means that the
power and well-being of the nakshatras is dependant upon the
condition of the Moon. The nakshatras, as the Moon's wives,
indicates the powers of the Moon, the powers of the consciousness.
The condition of the Moon is therefore of paramount importance in
judging the well-being of the powers of the consciousness indicated
by the nakshatras. If the Moon is afflicted the consciousness will be
unable to give rise to any growth. In this case depression, mental
imbalances, compulsivity, inertia, etc. disrupt the growth of anything.
If the Moon is well influenced then things manifest easily from the
consciousness by way of the nakshatras.
TARA BALA
The nakshatra in which a planet falls from the Janma Nakshatra
(Moon's Nakshatra) is an important factor to consider. This is called
the Tara Bala, or star strength. Counting from the Janma Nakshatra
we have the following:
1st- Janma- birth, Moon’s nakshatra.
2nd- Sampat- success, perfection, wealth, concord, enjoyment, glory,
beauty, becoming, existence.
3rd- Vipat- prevent, hinder, fail, die.
4th- Kshema- habitable, security, prosperity.
5th- Pratyak- facing, coming, averted, moving in an opposite
direction, westward, inner, past, gone.
6th- Sadhaka- effective, productive, efficient, finishing, perfecting,
fulfilling, useful.
7th- Vadha- slayer, destroyer, death, destruction, prevention. AlsoNaidana- perishable, deadly.
8th- Maitra- friendly, benevolent, kind, affectionate.
9th- Parama Maitra- extreme, highest, best Maitra.

The Nakshatras

173

These nine are repeated again twice to cover all the 27 nakshatras.
To calculate the Tara Bala, count how many nakshatras the planet is
from the Moon's nakshatra, divide this by 9, the remainder indicates
the Tara Bala. Or, more simply, determine the nine-nakshatra lords
from the Moon's nakshatra, planets falling in the other nakshatras
ruled by the same planets will have the same Tara Bala.
1. A planet in 3rd, 5th, and 7th, (Vipat, Pratyak, and Vadha)
nakshatras produces evil.
2. A planet placed in the 9th (Parama Maitra) nakshatras will yield
excellent results.
3. A planet placed in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 6th, and 8th (Janma, Sampat,
Kshema, Sadhaka and Maitra) nakshatras produces good results.
The Tara Bala allows us to see the influences arising from the
consciousness (the Moon) upon a planet. Following are the
influences upon a planet due to the Tara Bala:
1st- Initialization and ideas in the consciousness.
2nd- Receptivity without judgment and therefore the ability to enjoy
what is available.
3rd- Frustration due to things not manifesting in the manner one
thinks they should.
4th- Recognition of security and practical utility.
5th- Recognition that fulfillment will be limited and a need to move
towards something more.
6th- Awareness of making decisions through properly accessing the
value of the consideration, and therefore experiencing fulfillment.
Harmony between the inner and outer wealth.
7th- Inability to welcome any happiness or fulfillment due to a
consciousness of separation and loss.
8th- Welcome and acceptance due to a recognition that doing so will
result in greater fulfillment.
9th- Unity of consciousness and therefore greatest fulfillment.

174

Vault of the Heavens

PLANETS IN NAKSHATRAS
The growth of any planet or point is dependent upon the qualities
of the nakshatra in which it falls:
1. In the event of benefic influences to the planet, the qualities of
the nakshatra will provide healthy growth and realization to the
indications of the planet.
2. In the event of malefic influences to the planet the qualities of
the nakshatra will be suppressed so as not to provide any healthy
growth or realization of the planets indications.
THE JANMA NAKSHATRA
As the nakshatras are the lunar mansions, the Janma Nakshatra
(Birth Star), the nakshatra occupied by the Moon at birth, is given
great importance by all classical astrology writers. The Janma
Nakshatra indicates the power inherent in the native's consciousness.
If the Moon is afflicted this consciousness is disturbed and the native
enjoys little growth in life’s affairs.
Following are some of the important uses of the nakshatras:
1. The qualities of a nakshatra will influence any planets or points
falling in the nakshatra.
2. The dasa of a planet will give the effects of any planets falling in
its nakshatra. These effects will be auspicious or inauspicious
depending upon the condition of that dasa lord.
3. In determining the effects of any planet, its nakshatra dispositor
may be judged; the placement and condition of the nakshatra lord
in question will influence the effects of the planets.
4. A planet will, to some degree, give its effects through the agency
of the planet in whose nakshatra it is placed.
NAKSHATRA TABLES
Below are extensive tables of nakshatra qualities that have been
compiled over several years from various authoritative sources. The
table has a lot of information; most useful for purposes of natal
astrology are the meanings of the nakshatras' names; the presiding

The Nakshatras

175

deities; shaktis (powers), basis and results; and the people,
professions and articles governed by the nakshatras.
Some of the different categories of the nakshatras as given in the
Nakshatra Tables will first be explained:
Deity: The myths of these deities have a lot to reveal about the
nakshatras. For instance, there is a myth that Narayana taught
astrology to the Asvins, Asvinni therefore is one of the nakshatras
that indicates astrology. Prayer and rites directed towards these deities
can increase the growth of those things falling in their nakshatras.
Shakti: The type of power in the consciousness to create growth.
Basis Above: The foundation of the Shakti.
Basis Below: The natural reciprocation, or reflection, of the Basis
Above.
Result of the Shakti and Basis’: The natural result of the Shaktis
and Basis, these all applied with flexibility and imagination will yield
very revealing results.
The Shaktis, Basis’ and their Results, as presented in the table are
from Taittiriya Brahmana; these were first brought to my attention
through the writings of Dr. David Frawley and due thanks are given
him for his valuable contributions in this area.
Guna: Indicates the activating motivation of the nakshatra; whether
sattvic, inspired as a result of holding views that there are possibilities
for elevation; rajasic, inspired due to holding views that there are
possibilities of fulfilling activities; or tamasic, inspired as a result of
holding views that things can be depressed. Tamasic nakshatras are not
necessarily depressing; for instance Pushyami, a tamasic nakshatra,
has the shakti to create spiritual energy. It is motivated to do this as a
result of holding views that things can be depressed, in order to avoid
this possibility spiritual energy is created.

176

Vault of the Heavens

Caste: Chandalas are outcastes. Ugras are cruel and powerful people
or savages. Husbandmen are those who cultivate the soil, and,
together with attendants, form the Sudra caste.
Goal: Indicates the goal or purpose of the nakshatra. For more on
the goals, see “Artha, Dharma, Kama and Moksha” in the chapter,
“The Houses.” The benefic or malefic influences upon the planet
falling in a nakshatra will determine to what extent the goal will be
furthered.
Nature: The nature inclines the nakshatras to be better suited for
different tasks. For instance moveable nakshatras will give greater
growth to those things that require movement, travel, or change.
Fierce/severe nakshatras will give greater growth to those things
requiring severity, such as fighting, etc.
Activity: Passive nakshatras are more receptive, active nakshatras are
more initiative, balanced nakshatras are both active and passive
depending upon need.
Race: Deva, divine, nakshatras are inclined to uphold what they
believe is good. Manusha, human, nakshatras are pragmatic and
versatile in nature, the do what they believe will give the best results.
Rakshasa, demon, nakshatras are inclined to break taboos,
restrictions, etc.
Sex: There is some difference of opinion about the sex of two
Nakshatras, these have a “?”, the most agreed upon sex is listed.
Number of Stars: How many stars form the nakshatra and create
the Shape/Symbol of the nakshatra as given elsewhere in the tables.
Some sources give a different number of stars; in this case both
sources have been included

The Nakshatras

177

Tri-Murthi: Brahma nakshatras indicate the creative aspect, these are
also karma (action) nakshatras. Vishnu nakshatras are the reflection
of the Brahma nakshatras; they preserve or maintain what is created.
These are also bhoga (enjoyment) nakshatras. Siva nakshatras indicate
that which happens between the creative aspect and its reflection.
Namely the process of understanding that results in the loss of the
many in view of the One. These are also naasa (loss) nakshatras.
Brahma nakshatras are also known as Creative nakshatras, Vishnu
nakshatras as Preservative nakshatras, and Siva nakshatras are also
known as Destructive nakshatras.
Body Parts: Useful primarily for medical astrology. The organs
governed by nakshatras with malefics or disease causing planets will
suffer due to some disruption or excess to the proper flow of energy
to that organ. This energy is necessary for the proper growth of the
body part.
Dosha: The constitution, whether Kapha, Vata, or Pitta of the
nakshatra. For a brief explanation of the Doshas see “Doshas,” in the
chapter, “Description and Indications of the Planets.”
Miscellaneous Articles: can be helpful to determine more specific
detail about one's possessions, expenses, goods sold, etc.
People, Profession and Activities: can be helpful to determine
more specific detail about one's career, about people in the native’s
life, or about specific activities. Use these with flexibility, a nakshatra
that rules miners, for instance, could also mean activities in mining,
or simply mines.
In respect to Miscellaneous Articles, and People, Profession and
Activities, those in italics are derived from Brihat Samhita through a
study of transit effects, the other indications are directly stated from
Brihat Samhita and other works.

Vault of the Heavens

178

#
1
2
3

Name
Asvinni
Bharani
Krittika

4
5

Rohini
Mrigashira

6
7

Ardra
Punurvasu

8

Pushyami

Degrees
00:00 - 13:20 Aries
13:20 - 26:40 Aries
26:40 Aries 10:00 Taurus
10:00 - 23:20 Taurus
23:20 Taurus 6:40 Gemini
6:40 - 20:00 Gemini
20:00 Gemini 3:20 Cancer
3:20 - 16:40 Cancer

9

Aslesha

16:40 - 30:00 Cancer

10 Magha
00 :00- 13:20 Leo
11 PurvaPhalguni 13:20 - 26:40 Leo
12 UttaraPhalguni 26:40 Leo 10:00 Virgo
13 Hasta
10:00 - 23:20 Virgo
14 Chitra
23:20 Virgo 6:40 Libra
15 Svati
6:40 - 20:00 Libra
16 Vishaka
20:00 Libra 3:20 Scorpio
17 Anuradha
3:20 - 16:40 Scorpio
18 Jyeshtha
19 Moola
20 Purva Ashada
21 Uttara Ashada
22 Sravana
23 Dhanishta
24 Shatabishak
25 Purva Bhadra
26 Uttara Bhadra
27 Revati

16:40 - 30:00 Scorpio
00:00 13:20 Sagittarius
13:20 26:40 Sagittarius
26:40 Sagittarius 10:00 Capricorn
10:00 23:20 Capricorn
23:20 Capricorn 6:40 Aquarius
6:40 - 20:00 Aquarius
20:00 Aquarius 3:20 Pisces
3:20 - 16:40 Pisces
16:40 - 30:00 Pisces

Lord
Ketu
Venus
Sun

Meaning
the horsemen
the bearers
razor/cutter

Moon
Mars

ruddy cow, red, growing
dear or antelope's head

Rahu
Jupiter

the moist
return of the goods and
light
Saturn nourisher, flower, the
best
Mercury entwiner, embracer,
intimate connection
Ketu
beneficent, mighty
Venus
previous red one
Sun
later red one

Moon
Mars

hand
brilliant, distinguished

Rahu
Jupiter

independent, sword
branched, forked
branches
Saturn subsequent success,
following Radha
Mercury the eldest
Ketu
root, commencement
Venus

earlier victory

Sun

later victory

Moon

famous, hearing

Mars

very rich, very swift

Rahu
Jupiter

100 medicines or doctors
earlier auspicious one

Saturn later auspicious one
Mercury rich, wealthy

The Nakshatras
#
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

Name
Asvinni
Bharani
Krittika
Rohini
Mrigashira
Ardra
Punurvasu
Pushyami

Shape/Symbol
horses head
female sexual organ
dagger/razor
chariot
head of a deer
tear drop, gem
quiver/ house, bow
teat of cow, arrow,
flower
9 Aslesha
wheel, serpent
10 Magha
throne, palanquin,
royal court
11 PurvaPhalguni legs of a cot, stage
12 UttaraPhalguni bed, legs of a cot
13 Hasta
closed hand
14 Chitra
pearl
15 Svati
coral, sapphire
16 Vishaka
leaf decked triumphal
gate, potters wheel
17 Anuradha
“ “ “ “ or bali (heap of
rice), umbrella
18 Jyeshtha
kundal (ear Ring),
umbrella, talisman
19 Moola
tail of lion
20 Purva Ashada hand fan, winnowing
basket, tusk, square
21 Uttara Ashada machan, elephant
tusk, square
22 Sravana
3 footprints, arrow
23 Dhanishta
mridanga (drum)
24 Shatabishak
circle, flower
25 Purva Bhadra
double faced man,
stage, machan, legs of
a cot
26 Uttara Bhadra last bed, legs of a cot,
two joined men
27 Revati
mridanga (drum), fish

179

Guna
Rajas
Tamas
Sattva
Rajas
Tamas
Sattva
Rajas
Tamas

Caste
Vaishya
Chandala
Brahmin
husbandman
attendants
Ugra
Vaishya
Kshatriya

Goal
dharma
artha
kama
moksha
moksha
kama
artha
dharma

Sattva
Rajas

Chandala
dharma
husbandman artha

Tamas
Sattva
Rajas
Tamas
Sattva
Rajas

Brahmin
Kshatriya
Vaishya
attendants
Ugra
Chandala

Tamas

husbandman dharma

Sattva

attendants

artha

Rajas
Tamas

Ugra
Brahmin

kama
moksha

Sattva

Kshatriya

moksha

Rajas
Tamas
Sattva
Rajas

Chandala
attendants
Ugra
Brahmin

artha
dharma
dharma
artha

Tamas

Kshatriya

kama

Sattva

husbandman moksha

kama
moksha
moksha
kama
artha
dharma

Vault of the Heavens

180

#
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Name
Asvinni
Bharani
Krittika
Rohini
Mrigashira
Ardra
Punurvasu

8

Pushyami

Deity
Asvins-the twin horseman
Yama- Death
Agni- Fire
Prajapati-lord of creation
Soma-god of immortality
Rudra-god of storm
Aditi-mother of the Gods

Brihaspati- teacher of the
Devas
9 Aslesha
Sarpa- serpent
10 Magha
the Pitris- the Ancestral
Fathers
11 PurvaPhalguni Aryaman- god of contracts &
union, Sun as friend, beloved
12 UttaraPhalguni Bhaga-the Sun as bliss
13 Hasta
14 Chitra
15 Svati
16 Vishaka
17 Anuradha
18 Jyeshtha
19 Moola
20 Purva Ashada
21 Uttara Ashada
22 Sravana
23 Dhanishta
24 Shatabishak
25 Purva Bhadra
26 Uttara Bhadra
27 Revati

Shakti (power to/of…)
quickly reaching things
take things away
to burn
growth
giving fulfillment
effort
ability to gain wealth or
substance
create spiritual energy
inflict with poison
leave the body
procreation

giving of prosperity through
union or marriage
Savitar-Sun as inspiration
gain what one is seeking and
place it in one's hands
Vishvakarma- divine architect accumulate merit in life
Vayu-Wind
scatter like the wind
Indragni-gods of lightning
achieve many and various
and Fire
fruits
Mitra-divine friend,
worship
lord of compassion
Indra-god of thunder
rise or conquer, gain courage
in battle
Nirritti- goddess of disaster, to ruin or destroy
Alaksmi
Apas-goddess of Waters
invigoration
Vishvadevas-Universal Gods grant an unchallengeable
victory
Vishnu- the Pervader
connection
Vasus-gods of Light and
give abundance and fame
Abundance
Varuna-god of Cosmic Water healing
Aja Ekapada- one footed
gives the fire to raise one
serpent, horned goat, unicorn worshipping up in life
Ahir Budhya- dragon of the bringing of the rain
depths of the atmosphere
Pushan- Sun as nourisher,
nourishment, symbolized by
protector, fosterer
milk

The Nakshatras
#
1

Basis Above
those to be healed

2

removal of life from
the body
3 heat
4 plants
5 extension
6 hunting or searching
7 wind or air
8 sacrificial worship
9 approach of the
serpant
10 mourning
11 wife, female partner
12 wealth gained from
one's own family
13 seeking of gain
14 law
15 moving in various
directions
16 plowing or cultivation
17 ascension
18 attack
19 breaking things apart
20 strength
21 strength to win
22
23
24
25

seeking
birth
pervasion over all
what is good for all
people
26 raining clouds
27 cows

181

Basis Below
healing therapies

Result of Shakti & Basis'
world becomes free from
disease
carrying the soul to the moving on to the next world
ancestral realm
light
burning or purification
waters
creation
weaving
make the world enjoyable
reaching the goal
brings about achievement
wetness or rain
revitalization of plants
the worshipper
creation of spiritual energy
trembling and
destruction of the victim
agitation
leaving the body
death
husband, male partner creation of the fetus
accumulation of wealth
wealth gained from
one's partner and their
family
process of gaining
puts what one wishes to gain
in one's hand
truth
gain honor in one's work
change of form
transformation
harvest
descent
defense
crushing things

fruit of the harvest
honor and abundance
one becomes a hero
the power to destroy

connection
the goal that one can
win
the paths
prosperity
support of all
what is good for the
gods
growing of planets
calves

gain of luster
becomes unchallenged
winner
connection of all things
bringing people together
world freed of calamity
support the entire world
stability of the three worlds
nourishment of the entire
world

Vault of the Heavens

182

# Name
1 Asvinni
2 Bharani

Sex
#Stars
Male
3
Female 3

3

Female 6

4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27

Nature
Activity Facing Race
light, swift Passive Side
Deva
fierce,
balanced Down Manusha
severe
Krittika
soft,
active
Down Rakshasa
dreadful
Rohini
fixed
balanced Up
Manusha
Mrigashira
soft,
passive Side
Deva
tender
Ardra
sharp,
balanced Up
Manusha
dreadful
Punurvasu
movable passive Side
Deva
Pushyami
light, swift passive Up
Deva
Aslesha
sharp,
active
Down Rakshasa
dreadful
Magha
fierce,
active
Down Rakshasa
severe
PurvaPhalguni fierce,
balanced Up
Manusha
severe
UttaraPhalguni fixed
balanced Down Manusha
Hasta
light, swift passive Side
Deva
Chitra
soft,
active
Side
Rakshasa
tender
Svati
movable passive Side
Deva
Vishaka
soft,
active
Down Rakshasa
dreadful
Anuradha
soft,
passive Side
Deva
tender
Jyeshtha
sharp,
active
Side
Rakshasa
dreadful
Moola
sharp,
active
Down Rakshasa
dreadful
Purva Ashada fierce,
balanced Down Manusha
severe
Uttara Ashada fixed
balanced Up
Manusha
Sravana
movable passive Up
Deva
Dhanishta
movable active
Up
Rakshasa
Shatabishak
movable active
Up
Rakshasa
Purva Bhadra fierce,
passive Down Manusha
severe
Uttara Bhadra movable balanced Up
Manusha
Revati
soft,
balanced Side
Deva
tender

Male? 5
Neuter 3
Female 1
Male
4/5
Male
3
Female 5/6
Female 5
Female 2/8
Female 2
Male
5
Female 1
Female 1
Female 4/5
Male

4

Female 3
?
Neuter 11
Female 2
Female
Male
Female
Neuter
Male

2/8
3
4/5
100
2

Male
2/8
Female 32

The Nakshatras
#
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11

Name
Asvinni
Bharani
Krittika
Rohini
Mrigashira
Ardra
Punurvasu
Pushyami
Aslesha
Magha
PurvaPhalguni

183

TriMurthi Karma, etc
Brahma
karma
Vishnu
bhoga
Siva
naasa
Brahma
karma
Vishnu
bhoga
Siva
naasa
Brahma
karma
Vishnu
bhoga
Siva
naasa
Brahma
karma
Vishnu
bhoga

Dhatu, etc Dik
dhatu
South
mula
West
jeeva
North
dhatu
East
mula
South
jeeva
West
dhatu
North
mula
East
jeeva
South
dhatu
West
mula
North

12 UttaraPhalguni Siva
13 Hasta
Brahma
14 Chitra
Vishnu

naasa
karma
bhoga

jeeva
dhatu
mula

East
South
West

15 Svati
16 Vishaka
17 Anuradha

Siva
Brahma
Vishnu

naasa
karma
bhoga

jeeva
dhatu
mula

North
East
South

18 Jyeshtha
19 Moola

Siva
Brahma

naasa
karma

jeeva
dhatu

West
North

20 Purva Ashada
21 Uttara Ashada

Vishnu
Siva

bhoga
naasa

mula
jeeva

East
South

22 Sravana

Brahma

karma

dhatu

North

23 Dhanishta
24 Shatabishak
25 Purva Bhadra

Vishnu
Siva
Brahma

bhoga
naasa
karma

mula
jeeva
dhatu

East
South
West

26 Uttara Bhadra
27 Revati

Vishnu
Siva

bhoga
naasa

mula
jeeva

North
East

Place
town
street
jungle
stable
cot
temple
granary
house
debris
paddy box
ruined
house
water
pond
river
bund
field
cottonfield
grassy
place
jungle
horse
stable
roof
washing
ghat
battlefield
oil press
street
house in
south
rivers
garden

Karma is activity, Bhoga is enjoyment, and Naasa is loss.
Dhatus are minerals, Mulas roots, and Jeevas living beings.
The places, except for UttaraBhadra, are from GnanaPradeepika, an unusual work
on Prasna. According to this work, these places indicate where lost articles are to be
found.

Vault of the Heavens

184

#
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27

Body Parts*
VarahaMihira Parashara? Other
knees
head
upper feet
head
forehead
lower feet
hips, loins, waist eyebrows
head, upper/back
of head
Rohini
legs, shanks
eyes
forehead, ankles,
calves, shins
Mrigashira
eyes
nose
eyebrows
Ardra
hair, scalp
ears
eyes, top/back of
head, skull
Punurvasu
fingers
cheeks
nose
Pushyami
mouth, face
lips
face
Aslesha
nails
chin
ears, joints
Magha
nose
neck
lips, chin
PurvaPhalguni genitals
shoulders
right hand, lips,
upper lip
UttaraPhalguni genitals
heart
left hand
Hasta
hands
sides
fingers
Chitra
forehead
chest
neck
Svati
teeth
stomach
chest, intestines
Vishaka
arms
navel
breasts
Anuradha
breasts, heart
waist
stomach, womb,
bowels
Jyeshtha
neck
upper hips right side, tongue,
middle finger
Moola
feet
lower hips left side
Purva Ashada thighs
genitals
back
Uttara Ashada thighs
scrotum
waist
Sravana
ears
lower belly genitals
Dhanishta
back
thighs
anus
Shatabishak
chin, laughter
knees
right thigh, jaw
Purva Bhadra
side
legs
left thigh, soles,
ribs, feet
Uttara Bhadra side
ankles
shins, soles, ribs,
feet
Revati
abdomen
feet
ankles, armpit,
groin
Name
Asvinni
Bharani
Krittika

Dosha
Vata
Pitta
Kapha
Kapha
Pitta
Vata
Vata
Pitta
Kapha
Kapha
Pitta
Vata
Vata
Pitta
Kapha
Kapha
Pitta
Vata
Vata
Pitta
Kapha
Kapha
Pitta
Vata
Vata
Pitta
Kapha

*There are different views regarding the body parts, all those available have been
presented. It is not sure whether those attributed to Parashara are actually due to
him. Readers would do well to follow primarily Varaha Mihira’s allocation.

The Nakshatras
#
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27

Name
Asvinni
Bharani
Krittika
Rohini

185

Miscellaneous Articles
conveyances, horses
wells, husky grains, cereals
mantra, music, white flower
forests beasts, rose apple, gems, ornaments, mountain,
cows, bulls, aquatic animals, beauty parlor, market
Mrigashira
fruits, Catechu plant (betel nut), fragrant articles, birds,
garments, aquatic products, flowers, gems, beasts,
perfumes, brewery, mango, juices, tastes, crops
Ardra
fort, husky grains, belleric Myrobalan (Baheda), heavy rains
Punurvasu
weapons, best of grains (Kalama paddy)
Pushyami
sugarcane, barley, wheat, rice, holy fig tree (Peepal), forest,
water tanks, flowers
Aslesha
artificial articles, liquids, husky grains, bulbs, root, fruit,
insect, reptiles, poison, herb, worm, aquatic objects or animals
Magha
corns, granaries, non-vegetarian food,
PurvaPhalguni salt, fire, Butea Frondosa (Palash), commodities, oil,
cotton, honey, kids, money exchangers, fried food
UttaraPhalguni elephants, stone, fire, corns, holy tree (Plaksha), fine grains
(kalama rice), jaggery, salt
Hasta
neem tree, ornaments, commodities, husky grain, elephants
Chitra
coconut, corns for royal use, birds, painted vessels, women
Svati
elephant, green gram, Arjun tree (Arjun terminalia), birds,
beast, horses, grains that produce gas, deer, vegetables,
birth control, airplanes
Vishaka
cotton, stone, trees with red blossoms and fruits, sesame,
black, green and Bengal gram, gram, saffron, lac, crops,
madder, safflower
Anuradha
wool, hide articles, ornaments, horses, vehicles, games,
Mimusops Elengi (Bakula), things growing in the Autumn
Jyeshtha
wealth, buffaloes, fir, weapons, groups, seminaries, elite families,
trade guilds
Moola
reversed, seeds, weapons, agriculture, medicines, fruit, herbs
Purva Ashada fire, fruits, aquatic flowers and fruits, aquatic animals,
Uttara Ashada elephant, horses, stone, commerce, immovable things like
trees, diseases
Sravana
medicinal plant (Aak), conveyance,
Dhanishta
Ornaments
Shatabishak
Aquatic products and creatures, Neulea Orientalis, rope, net
Purva Bhadra
Mango tree, animal husbandry, fire
Uttara Bhadra Elephant, stone, lemon, fine corns, roots, fruits, gold, women
Revati
Aquatic products, conches, ornament, bassia latifolia, fruit,
salt, pearls, gem, flower, lotuses, perfumes, autumnal crops

Vault of the Heavens

186

# Name
1 Asvinni
2

Bharani

3

Krittika

4

Rohini

5

Mrigashira

6

Ardra

7

Punurvasu

8

Pushyami

9 Aslesha
10 Magha

11 Purva
Phalguni
12 Uttara
Phalguni

People, Professions, and Activities
Horse-dealers and riders, commandants, physicians,
attendants, merchants, handsome persons, traders, horsegrooms, army general, hunter, astrologers, poets, ministers
Those that feed on blood + flesh, cruel men, those engaged in
killing, imprisoning and beating others, low-borns, menial
work, courageless, characterless, ignoble, burial related jobs,
dancers, actors, musicians, singers, musicians, the wicked, hunters
Brahmans who maintain and worship the sacred fire, knowers
of the sacred hymns and sacrificial rules, grammarians, miners,
barbers, Brahmans, potters, priests, astrologers,
commentators, gold miners, those who work on fire i.e. goldsmiths,
blacksmiths etc., army commanders
Observers of vows, merchandisers, kings, wealthy persons,
Yogis, cartmen, husbandmen, liquor drinkers, men in
authority, politicians, entertainers, ascetics
Foresters, forest-dwellers, those who partake of Soma juice (in
sacrifices), musicians, lovers, letter carriers, the lustful hunters,
loafers, singers, sacrificers, officiating priests, the noble
Murderers, executioners, animal-catchers, liars, adulterers,
cruel persons, thieves, rogues, creators of discord, goblin
raisers, black magicians, charmers, sorcerers, butchers,
fowlers, prostitutes, oilmongers, washermen, dyers
The truthful, the pure and generous, clean, rich, high-born,
handsome, intelligent, grain merchants, famous, merchants,
servants, artisans, bankers, cave-dwellers
Sacrifice conductors, ministers, kings, fishermen, etc., virtuous
men, those engaged in big and small sacrifices, those involved
in physical exercise, persons engaged in ringing bells, those who make
loud announcements, gamblers
Nurses, robbers, all physicians, artisans, sorcerers
People rich in gold and corn, mountaineers, those devoted to
parents or the Manes, the valiant, traders, heroes, civil
engineers, carnivorous beings, women-haters, traders, godowns,
commanders of elephant-divisions, chief ministers
Actors, young women, amiable persons, musicians, artists,
boys, dancers, fashion, painting, dealers in juices or articles having
the six kinds of tastes, courtesans, virgins
Kind-hearted persons, the pure in conduct, modest, heretics,
charitable persons, the learned, very rich men, those who are
devoted to their duties, and kings, lawyers, judges, financiers,
government/social service, those with Vedic Knowledge,
treasurers, hermits (or mendicants), water

The Nakshatras
13 Hasta

187

Thieves, advocates, those who travel in chariots, elephantdrivers, artisans, men learned in the Vedas, traders, men of
prowess, speculators, gamblers, barbers, potters, oil-manufacturers
etc., physicians, tailors (needle-workers), elephant-catchers, harlots,
garland-makers (florists), painters
14 Chitra
Persons skilled in making ornaments, dyeing (or painting),
writing, singing, perfumery, mathematicians, weavers, jewel
examiners, ophthalmic surgeons, architects, interior
decorators, laborers engaged in the sinking of wells
15 Svati
Traders, ascetics, unsteady friends, feeble characters,
connoisseurs of wares, rhapsodists (bards), spies, couriers, charioteers
or story-tellers, sailors, actors, musicians, messengers
16 Vishaka
Men devoted to Indra and Gani, those learned and skilled in
handling fire, engineers, merchants
17 Anuradha
Men of prowess, corporate heads, friends of the virtuous,
lovers of assemblies, tourists (or lovers of carriages), all honest
persons in the world, athletes, vehicular repair and sales,
ministers, those that work with wheels such as potters, oil-makers etc.,
those that beat gongs or bell-makers, friends, Kshatriyas
18 Jyeshtha
Battle heroes, those who are noted for pedigree, wealth and
fame, thieves, kings intent on conquests, leaders of Kshatriyas,
king’s preceptors, those that receive royal patronage or honor,
19 Moola
Physicians, leaders of groups, those who deal in flowers, roots
and fruits, very wealthy persons, those who live only on fruits
and roots, warriors, those who deal in medicinal roots (druggists)
20 Purva
Tender-hearted people, navigators, wealthy persons,
Ashada
fishermen, the truthful, pure, meat sellers, constructors of
bridges/dams/canals, those who live by water
21 Uttara
Elephant drivers, wrestlers, devotees of Gods, warriors,
Ashada
persons enjoying pleasures, men of valor, astrologers,
22 Sravana
Jugglers, the ever-active, the efficient, the energetic, Vishnu
devotee, the truthful, righteous, king's officer, Brahmin, physician,
23 Dhanishta
Men w/o pride, eunuchs, fast friends, men hated by women,
women, charitable persons, very wealthy, peaceful, conqueror
of senses, treasurers, bankers, etc., heretics
24 Shatabishak Snarers, anglers, bird killers, dealers in fish etc., boar-hunters,
hunters, washer-men, distillers, fowlers, physicians, poets,
drunkards, traders, politicians
25 Purva
Thieves, cowherds, murderers, niggards, unvirtuous, one
Bhadra
clever in single combat, those doing despicable and roguish
actions, irreligious
26 Uttara
Brahmans, those engaged in sacrifices, charity and penance,
Bhadra
ascetics, very wealthy persons, recluses, heretics, monarchs,
those who dwell on riverbanks, carriage-makers, carpenters etc.
27 Revati
Traders, sailors, helmsmen, king's proteges, travelers, marching troops

Vault of the Heavens

188

00:00-3:20 F8 Chu
00:00-3:20 ]REe
00:00-3:20 N
5 3:20-6:40 N,Ka
3:20-6:40 FR Chay 3
3:20-6:40 = U
G8 Duu
Kee
1 6:40-10:00 FDR Cho
6:40-10:00 $R Ay
6:40-10:00 N8 Kuu
6:40-10:00 7 Tha
26 10:00-13:20 - Jha
10:00-13:20 O Laa
10:00-13:20 $ R Oh
10:00-13:20
6 13:20-16:40 *H Gha
13:20-16:40 O, Lee
13:20-16:40 Y Vaa
13:20-16:40 " Nja
Nga
4 16:40-20:00 Y, Vee
16:40-20:00 O8 Luu
16:40-20:00 & Chha
16:40-20:00 GR Day
2 20:00-23:20 OR
20:00-23:20 Y8 Vuu
20:00-23:20 NR Kay
20:00-23:20
Lay
Doh
27 23:20-26:40 GDR
23:20-26:40 O R Loh
23:20-26:40 YR Vay
23:20-26:40 NDR Koh
&D Chaa
7
5 26:40-30:00 Y R
26:40-30:00 &, Chee 3 26:40-30:00 $ A
26:40-30:00
Voh
K Haa
With respect to Sanskrit phonetics, the D, Dh, T, Th, and N sounds
00:00-3:20 J8 Guu
00:00-3:20 K, Hee
7
23 3:20-6:40 JR Gay can be difficult to differentiate between:
3:20-6:40 K8 Huu
The D sound in the 8th and 9th nakshatras is retroflex (tongue
6:40-10:00 JDR Goh reaches slightly back), as in drum.
6:40-10:00 KR Hay
The D sound in the 25th, 26th and 27th nakshatras is dental (tongue
8 10:00-13:20 KDR Hoh
reaches towards the teeth), as in dice.
10:00-13:20 VD Saa
Dh sound in the 2nd pada of the 20th nakshatra is dental, as in
24 13:20-16:40 V, See The
13:20-16:40 HD Daa
adhere.
The Dh sound in the last pada of the 20th nakshatra is retroflex, as in
16:40-20:00 V8 Suu
16:40-20:00 H, Dee
redhaired.
The T sound in the 11th and 12th nakshatras is retroflex, as in true.
20:00-23:20 VR Say
20:00-23:20
The T sound in the 15th and 16th nakshatras is dental, as in water.
9 23:20-26:40 H8 Duu
25 23:20-26:40 VDR Soh The Th sound in the 13th nakshatra is retroflex, as in anthill.
HR Day
The Th sound in the 26th nakshatra is dental, as in nuthook
26:40-30:00 GD Daa
26:40-30:00 HDR Doh
The N sound in the 6th nakshatra is nasal, as in sing.
The N sound in the 13th nakshatra is retroflex, as in none.
00:00-3:20 % R Bhoh The N sound in the 17th and 18th nakshatras is dental, as in nut.
00:00-3:20 0 Maa
N sound in the 26th nakshatra is palatal (tongue presses the
3:20-6:40 P, Mee
21 3:20-6:40 MD Jaa The
palate), as in si nge.
10 6:40-10:00 0 8 Muu
There is no W sound in sanskrit, rather, V is a blend of V and W.
6:40-10:00 M, Jee
10:00-13:20 . , Khee/M8Juu There is some
10:00-13:20 PR May
difference of
13:20-16:40 . 8 Khuu/MR Jay
13:20-16:40 PDR Moh
opinion as to
22 16:40-20:00 . R Khay/MDR Joh the sounds for
16:40-20:00
ZD Taa
this nakshatra,
11 20:00-23:20 Z, Tee
20:00-23:20 . RKhoh/J8Guu both are given.
23:20-26:40 JD Gaa
23:20-26:40 Z8 Tuu
23 26:40-30:00 J, Gee
12 26:40-30:00 ZR Tay
00:00-3:20 \R Yay
00:00-3:20 UD Raa
00:00-3:20 ZDR Toh
16 00:00-3:20 WDR Toh
3:20-6:40 \DR Yoh
3:20-6:40 QD Naa 14
3:20-6:40 U, Ree
3:20-6:40 SD Paa
12
19 6:40-10:00 % Bhaa
6:40-10:00 Q, Nee
6:40-10:00 _ Ruu
6:40-10:00 S, Pee
17 10:00-13:20 Q8 Nuu
10:00-13:20 % , Bhee
10:00-13:20 UR Ray
10:00-13:20 S8 Puu
15 13:20-16:40 UDR Roh
13:20-16:40 % 8Bhuu
13:20-16:40 QR Nay
13:20-16:40
13 16:40-20:00 51 Sha
16:40-20:00 ' Dhaa
16:40-20:00 QDR Noh
16:40-20:00 WD Taa
Nuh
20 20:00-23:20 3<D Phaa
20:00-23:20 \D Yaa
20:00-23:20 W, Tee
20:00-23:20 [ Tha
18 23:20-26:40 \, Yee
23:20-26:40 ID Dhaa
16 23:20-26:40 W8 Tuu 14 23:20-26:40 SR Pay
26:40-30:00 \8 Yuu
26:40-30:00 WR Tay
26:40-30:00
21 26:40-30:00 % R Bhay
SDR Poh

25 00:00-3:20 G, Dee
3:20-6:40

Nama Nakshatra
Each nakshatra pada (quarter) corresponds to a particular sound. A child is traditionally
given a name that begins with the sound of the nakshatra pada where their Moon is placed.
Any planet or point falling in the nakshatra pada corresponding to the native’s name is
particularly important.

Conjunctions of Planets

189

11
Conjunctions of Planets
In Vedic Astrology, a conjunction is defined as two or more
planets being in the same rasi. This is slightly different than in
Western Astrology where a conjunction is defined as two or more
planets being within an orb of influence of each other. Following are
some general influences of a planet upon any planet it may be
conjunct with:
Sun
Illuminates, stabilizes, dignifies, burns, separates, individualizes,
and gives independence to any planet it joins.
Moon
Reflects, comforts, soothes, nurtures, grows, socializes, and gives
change and fickleness to any planet it joins.
Mars
Activates, breaks, fights, energizes, and gives
independence and rebelliousness to any planet it joins.

strength,

Mercury
Balances, supports, communicates, and gives flexibility,
practicality, discrimination, and friendliness to any planet it joins.
Jupiter
Graces, expands, and gives forgiveness and understanding to any
planet it joins. The influence of a strong Jupiter is a healing balm that
indicates eventual gain and fulfillment.

190

Vault of the Heavens

Venus
Refines, comforts, loves and values, and gives enjoyment, ease,
and luxury to any planet it joins.
Saturn
Separates, isolates, detaches, suppresses, and gives coldness and
narrowness to any planet it joins.
INFLUENCE OF PLANETARY RELATIONSHIPS
Remember always that a planet that is a friend of another
supports the other’s natural characteristics, unless it is at variance
with its own characteristics; and that a planet that is an enemy of
another harms the natural characteristics of the other, except if they
share a similar indication. Planets in conjunction may be natural
friends, but they are always temporal enemies, so they will never be
friends, at best they will be neutral. They are therefore only capable
of supporting each other to a partial degree, to the degree that they
have mutual goals.
MULTIPLE PLANET CONJUNCTIONS
Following are some important guidelines from the classical texts
for determining the effects of conjunctions on the house the
conjunction takes place in:
“The combination of two or more planets always affects the house concerned. The
effects of such combinations may also yield a poisonous mixture as honey and ghee
mixed together.”
-Hora Sara
Any planets in conjunction put a lot of emphasis on the house
they are placed in. This will always be a significant house for the
native. More often than not planets in conjunction will be enemies.
As a result, conjunct planets have a greater capacity to create
difficulties in the house they are in than if they were there separately.

Conjunctions of Planets

191

“If benefics only join in a house, the effects produced will be very superior.
Inauspicious results will follow if malefics join together. If benefics and malefics join,
then the effects will be mixed.”
-Hora Sara
“If benefics are in conjunction at birth, the native will enjoy wealth, sovereignty and
fame. Such a combination produces an emperor capable of ruling the earth. Should
three malefics join at birth, the native will be unlucky, indigent, grief-stricken, ugly
and immodest.”
-Saravali
Beneficial conjunctions are preferred and increase the good
effects of the house they are in. Malefic conjunctions focus a great
deal of malefic energy on the house they are in, destroying the house.
When benefics are conjunct, though they may be enemies, they will
not harm each other, they will just not lend support. Malefics
conjunct, and being enemies, however, will harm each other.
“If four or more planets join in a house, only mixed effects will follow. The results
will manifest in the dasa and bukti, depending on the good and bad disposition of the
planets.”
-Hora Sara
“If five or six planets join, normally such natives will be penniless, subjected to grief
and dull-witted.”
-Saravali
Two many planets in a house tend to bring misery, even if they
are benefics and in good dignity they tend to bring discontent and
suffering. When there are 4 or more planets in a house, the happiness
realized from the house becomes significantly reduced. If any planets
are in bad dignity, the effects of the house are most likely destroyed.
Multiple planet conjunctions are therefore not preferred except in the
following cases:
“The native who has three or more planets together in lagna, 10th or 9th, will engage
himself in multifarious activities, have numerous good qualities, be extremely
intelligent, and enjoy like a lord of wealth.”
-Hora Sara

Vault of the Heavens

192

Star Chart
Constellations and Nakshatras- each nakshatra is marked by a particular star.

Planetary Aspects

193

12
Planetary Aspects
A planet influences the other rasis and planets. This is known as
the aspect of the planet. The Sanskrit name for aspect is Drishti,
meaning, “sight.” The planets are considered to be looking at other
planets and houses. A planet or house is modified in nature by
any planets which aspect them in accordance with the
aspecting planets nature. The nature of an aspect, whether
auspicious or inauspicious, is dependent upon the planet’s benefic or
malefic nature, not upon the degree of the aspect itself, as is common
in western astrology. The degree of the aspect, however, influences
the strength of the aspect.
Following are the aspects of the planets:
All planets aspect the 7th (180 degrees) from themselves with full
strength.
All planets aspect the 4th (90 degrees) and 8th (210 degrees) from
themselves with 3/4 strength.
All planets aspect the 5th (120 degrees) and 9th (240 degrees)
from themselves with 1/2 strength.
All planets aspect the 3rd (60 degrees) and 10th (270 degrees)
from themselves with 1/4 strength.
In addition Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn have special full strength
aspects as below:
Mars aspects the 4th (90 degrees) and 8th (210 degrees) from
himself with full strength.
Jupiter aspects the 5th (120 degrees) and 9th (240 degrees) from
himself with full strength.
Saturn aspects the 3rd (60 degrees) and 10th (270 degrees) from
itself with full strength.

194

Vault of the Heavens

Planets cause no aspects whatsoever from 300 - 360 degrees, from
00 - 30 degrees and at 150 degrees.
The full strength of a planetary aspect is 60 Virupas. The planets,
therefore, aspect other planets and points in the horoscope anywhere
from 0 - 60 Virupas. Planetary aspects are not mutual; one planet
may aspect another without being aspected in return.
The common practice is to consider only the full aspects and that
based only on rasis, not on degrees. For example, if the Sun were in
Aries it would be considered to aspect any planet in the 7th rasi from
Libra, no matter the degree. In actual practice it is possible for a
planet to be at the last degree of Aries aspecting a planet at the first
degree of Libra. The difference from the aspecting planet to the
aspected planet would then be 152 degrees, at 150 degrees an aspect
has zero strength, so to consider this 152 degree aspect as full is not
accurate, in fact the strength of the aspect would be only 4 virupas,
very negligible.
There is a bit of extra work involved in calculating the exact
aspectual value, but once done it simplifies reading the horoscope
and increases accuracy. Fortunately we now have computer software
to easily do these calculations for us. If software is not available to
you that does this, you can do the calculations by hand. Following are
the calculations to determine the aspectual values of a planet's aspect:
Subtract the longitude of the aspecting planet from that of the
aspected planet:
1. If the difference is greater than 300 degrees, or less than 30
degrees, there is no aspect, the Virupas are 0.
2. If the difference is between 180 degrees and 300 degrees then:
(300 - degrees)/2 = Virupas.
1. If the aspecting planet is Mars, and the difference is between
180 and 210 degrees then: Virupas = 60.

Planetary Aspects

195

2. If the aspecting planet is Mars, and the difference is between
210 - 240 degrees then: 60 - (degrees - 210) = Virupas.
3. If the aspecting planet is Jupiter, and the difference is
between 210 - 240 degrees then: (degrees - 210)/2 + 45 =
Virupas.
4. If the aspecting planet is Jupiter, and the difference is
between 240 - 270 degrees then: (270 - degrees) 1.5 + 15 =
Virupas.
5. If the aspecting planet is Saturn, and the difference is
between 240 - 270 degrees then: (degrees - 240) + 30 =
Virupas.
6. If the aspecting planet is Saturn, and the difference is
between 270 - 300 degrees then: (300 - degrees) 2 = Virupas.
3. If the difference is between 150 degrees and 180 degrees then:
(degrees - 150) 2 = Virupas.
4. If the difference is between 120 degrees and 150 degrees then:
150 - degrees = Virupas.
1. If the aspecting planet is Jupiter then: (150 - degrees) 2 =
Virupas.
5. If the difference is between 90 degrees and 120 degrees then:
(120 - degrees)/2 + 30 = Virupas.
1. If the aspecting planet is Mars then: 60 - (degrees - 90) =
Virupas.
2. If the aspecting planet is Jupiter then: (degrees - 90) 2 + 45 =
Virupas.
6. If the difference is between 60 degrees and 90 degrees then:
(degrees - 60) + 15 = Virupas.
1. If the aspecting planet is Mars then: (degrees - 60) 1.5 + 15 =
Virupas.
2. If the aspecting planet is Saturn then: 60 - (degrees - 60)/2 =
Virupas.

196

Vault of the Heavens

7. If the difference is between 30 degrees and 60 degrees then:
(degrees - 30)/2 = Virupas.
1. If the aspecting planet is Saturn then: (degrees - 30) 2 =
Virupas.
Tables are also being provided at the end of the chapter to make
the task of calculating aspectual values quick and easy. In order to use
the tables you will have to first determine how many degrees the
aspected planet or point is from the aspecting planet. To do this,
subtract the degrees of the aspecting planet from that of the
aspected; find these degrees in the tables and refer to the virupa
strength of the aspect. Note that there are different tables for the
different planets.
ASPECTS OF RAHU AND KETU
There are different views regarding the aspects of Rahu and Ketu.
Some do not consider them to have any aspect at all. Those who do
consider Rahu and Ketu to have aspects, generally consider them to
aspect the 5th (120 degrees), 7th (180 degrees) and 9th (240 degrees)
with full strength, similar to Jupiter's aspect. However, none of the
astrological treatises ascribed to any of the rishis gives aspects to
Rahu and Ketu. I believe that due to a factor called Argala, which
exerts a type of influence on a planet, Rahu and Ketu have
mistakenly been thought to aspect the 5th and 9th places from them.
Argala is not a commonly used, nor a commonly understood factor
in astrology. It is however an important factor that is being reserved
for discussion in another work devoted to like principles and
techniques.
My belief is that Rahu and Ketu do exert an influence onto the 5th
and 9th places from them, but through Argala, not through aspect. An
aspect influences a planet directly due to the aspecting planets nature,
it colors what it aspects accordingly, Rahu and Ketu influencing the
5th and 9th do not do this. I have found that trying to use planetary
aspects for Rahu and Ketu will be misleading and a source of
confusion when making predictions.

Planetary Aspects

197

PLANETARY ASPECTS IN THE DIVISIONAL CHARTS
The aspects of the planets is based upon the planets each having a
range of vision from 30 - 300 degrees, with a blind spot at 150
degrees. In the divisional charts, such as the navamsa, planets do not
cast any planetary aspects since the planets do not have degrees in
these charts.
INFLUENCE OF PLANETS ASPECTING PLANETS
The effect of a planet aspecting another planet is similar to that
given previously for the conjunctions in the chapter, “Conjunctions
of Planets.” The important difference is that a planet can be aspected
by a friend, enemy, or neutral, while a planet can only be conjunct
with an enemy or friend.
1. If a planet is aspected by a friend, its nature is supported by the
qualities of the aspecting planet, unless the quality of the
aspecting planet is contrary to the quality of the aspected planet.
2. If a planet is aspected by an enemy, its nature is harmed by the
qualities of the aspecting planet, unless the quality of the
aspecting planet is similar to the quality of the aspected planet.
3. If a planet is aspected by a neutral the qualities it has that are
similar with those of the aspecting planet get supported while
those qualities it has that are contrary to those of the aspecting
planet are weakened.
These guidelines hold true for rasi aspects as well, as presented in the
next chapter, “Rasi Aspects.”
In order to provide a visual understanding of the planetary
aspects, graphs illustrating the aspects are located with the aspect
tables below:

198

Vault of the Heavens

Aspects of Sun, Moon, Mercury and Venus
Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR
30 00 60 15 90 45 120 30 150 00 180 60 210 45 240 30 270 15
31 0.5 61 16 91 44.5 121 29 151 2 181 59.5 211 44.5 241 29.5 271 14.5
32 1
62 17 92 44 122 28 152 4 182 59 212 44 242 29 272 14
33 1.5 63 18 93 43.5 123 27 153 6 183 58.5 213 43.5 243 28.5 273 13.5
34 2
64 19 94 43 124 26 154 8 184 58 214 43 244 28 274 13
35 2.5 65 20 95 42.5 125 25 155 10 185 57.5 215 42.5 245 27.5 275 12.5
36 3
66 21 96 42 126 24 156 12 186 57 216 42 246 27 276 12
37 3.5 67 22 97 41.5 127 23 157 14 187 56.5 217 41.5 247 26.5 277 11.5
38 4
68 23 98 41 128 22 158 16 188 56 218 41 248 26 278 11
39 4.5 69 24 99 40.5 129 21 159 18 189 55.5 219 40.5 249 25.5 279 10.5
40 5
70 25 100 40 130 20 160 20 190 55 220 40 250 25 280 10
41 5.5 71 26 101 39.5 131 19 161 22 191 54.5 221 39.5 251 24.5 281 9.5
42 6
72 27 102 39 132 18 162 24 192 54 222 39 252 24 282 9
43 6.5 73 28 103 38.5 133 17 163 26 193 53.5 223 38.5 253 23.5 283 8.5
44 7
74 29 104 38 134 16 164 28 194 53 224 38 254 23 284 8
45 7.5 75 30 105 37.5 135 15 165 30 195 52.5 225 37.5 255 22.5 285 7.5
46 8
76 31 106 37 136 14 166 32 196 52 226 37 256 22 286 7
47 8.5 77 32 107 36.5 137 13 167 34 197 51.5 227 36.5 257 21.5 287 6.5
48 9
78 33 108 36 138 12 168 36 198 51 228 36 258 21 288 6
49 9.5 79 34 109 35.5 139 11 169 38 199 50.5 229 35.5 259 20.5 289 5.5
50 10 80 35 110 35 140 10 170 40 200 50 230 35 260 20 290 5
51 10.5 81 36 111 34.5 141 9 171 42 201 49.5 231 34.5 261 19.5 291 4.5
52 11 82 37 112 34 142 8 172 44 202 49 232 34 262 19 292 4
53 11.5 83 38 113 33.5 143 7 173 46 203 48.5 233 33.5 263 18.5 293 3.5
54 12 84 39 114 33 144 6 174 48 204 48 234 33 264 18 294 3
55 12.5 85 40 115 32.5 145 5 175 50 205 47.5 235 32.5 265 17.5 295 2.5
56 13 86 41 116 32 146 4 176 52 206 47 236 32 266 17 296 2
57 13.5 87 42 117 31.5 147 3 177 54 207 46.5 237 31.5 267 16.5 297 1.5
58 14 88 43 118 31 148 2 178 56 208 46 238 31 268 16 298 1
59 14.5 89 44 119 30.5 149 1 179 58 209 45.5 239 30.5 269 15.5 299 0.5

Full

60 Virupas

3/4

45 Virupas

1/2

30 Virupas

1/4

15 Virupas

00 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 360
Degrees from the Sun, Moon, Mercury or Venus to the Aspected

Planetary Aspects

199

Aspects of Mars
Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR
30 00 60 15 90 60 120 30 150 00 180 60 210 60 240 30 270 15
31 0.5 61 16.5 91 59 121 29 151 2 181 60 211 59 241 29.5 271 14.5
32 1
62 18 92 58 122 28 152 4 189260 212 58 242 29 272 14
33 1.5 63 19.5 93 57 123 27 153 6 183 60 213 56 243 28.5 273 13.5
34 2
64 21 94 56 124 26 154 8 184 60 214 56 244 28 274 13
35 2.5 65 22.5 95 55 125 25 155 10 185 60 215 55 245 27.5 275 12.5
36 3
66 24 96 54 126 24 156 12 186 60 216 54 246 27 276 12
37 3.5 67 25.5 97 53 127 23 157 14 187 60 217 53 247 26.5 277 11.5
38 4
68 27 98 52 128 22 158 16 188 60 218 52 248 26 278 11
39 4.5 69 28.5 99 51 129 21 159 18 189 60 219 51 249 25.5 279 10.5
40 5
70 30 100 50 130 20 160 20 190 60 220 50 250 25 280 10
41 5.5 71 31.5 101 49 131 19 161 22 191 60 221 49 251 24.5 281 9.5
42 6
72 33 102 48 132 18 162 24 192 60 222 48 252 24 282 9
43 6.5 73 34.5 103 47 133 17 163 26 193 60 223 47 253 23.5 283 8.5
44 7
74 36 104 46 134 16 164 28 194 60 224 46 254 23 284 8
45 7.5 75 37.5 105 45 135 15 165 30 195 60 225 45 255 22.5 285 7.5
46 8
76 39 106 44 136 14 166 32 196 60 226 44 256 22 286 7
47 8.5 77 40.5 107 43 137 13 167 34 197 60 227 43 257 21.5 287 6.5
48 9
78 42 108 42 138 12 168 36 198 60 228 42 258 21 288 6
49 9.5 79 43.5 109 41 139 11 169 38 199 60 229 41 259 20.5 289 5.5
50 10 80 45 110 40 140 10 170 40 200 60 230 40 260 20 290 5
51 10.5 81 46.5 111 39 141 9 171 42 201 60 231 39 261 19.5 291 4.5
52 11 82 48 112 38 142 8 172 44 202 60 232 38 262 19 292 4
53 11.5 83 49.5 113 37 143 7 173 46 203 60 233 37 263 18.5 293 3.5
54 12 84 51 114 36 144 6 174 48 204 60 234 36 264 18 294 3
55 12.5 85 52.5 115 35 145 5 175 50 205 60 235 35 265 17.5 295 2.5
56 13 86 54 116 34 146 4 176 52 206 60 236 34 266 17 296 2
57 13.5 87 55.5 117 33 147 3 177 54 207 60 237 33 267 16.5 297 1.5
58 14 88 57 118 32 148 2 178 56 208 60 238 32 268 16 298 1
59 14.5 89 58.5 119 31 149 1 179 58 209 60 239 31 269 15.5 299 0.5

Full

60 Virupas

3/4

45 Virupas

1/2

30 Virupas

1/4

15 Virupas
00 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 360
Degrees from Mars to the Aspected

Vault of the Heavens

200

Aspects of Jupiter
Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR
30 00 60 15 90 45 120 60 150 00 180 60 210 45 240 60 270 15
31 0.5 61 16 91 45.5 121 58 151 2 181 59.5 211 45.5 241 58.5 271 14.5
32 1
62 17 92 46 122 56 152 4 189259 212 46 242 57 272 14
33 1.5 63 18 93 46.5 123 54 153 6 183 58.5 213 46.5 243 55.5 273 13.5
34 2
64 19 94 47 124 52 154 8 184 58 214 47 244 54 274 13
35 2.5 65 20 95 47.5 125 50 155 10 185 57.5 215 47.5 245 52.5 275 12.5
36 3
66 21 96 48 126 48 156 12 186 57 216 48 246 51 276 12
37 3.5 67 22 97 48.5 127 46 157 14 187 56.5 217 48.5 247 49.5 277 11.5
38 4
68 23 98 49 128 44 158 16 188 56 218 49 248 48 278 11
39 4.5 69 24 99 49.5 129 42 159 18 189 55.5 219 49.5 249 46.5 279 10.5
40 5
70 25 100 50 130 40 160 20 190 55 220 50 250 45 280 10
41 5.5 71 26 101 50.5 131 38 161 22 191 54.5 221 50.5 251 43.5 281 9.5
42 6
72 27 102 51 132 36 162 24 192 54 222 51 252 42 282 9
43 6.5 73 28 103 51.5 133 34 163 26 193 53.5 223 51.5 253 40.5 283 8.5
44 7
74 29 104 52 134 32 164 28 194 53 224 52 254 39 284 8
45 7.5 75 30 105 52.5 135 30 165 30 195 52.5 225 52.5 255 37.5 285 7.5
46 8
76 31 106 53 136 28 166 32 196 52 226 53 256 36 286 7
47 8.5 77 32 107 53.5 137 26 167 34 197 51.5 227 53.5 257 34.5 287 6.5
48 9
78 33 108 54 138 24 168 36 198 51 228 54 258 33 288 6
49 9.5 79 34 109 54.5 139 22 169 38 199 50.5 229 54.5 259 31.5 289 5.5
50 10 80 35 110 55 140 20 170 40 200 50 230 55 260 30 290 5
51 10.5 81 36 111 55.5 141 18 171 42 201 49.5 231 55.5 261 28.5 291 4.5
52 11 82 37 112 56 142 16 172 44 202 49 232 56 262 27 292 4
53 11.5 83 38 113 56.5 143 14 173 46 203 48.5 233 56.5 263 25.5 293 3.5
54 12 84 39 114 57 144 12 174 48 204 48 234 57 264 24 294 3
55 12.5 85 40 115 57.5 145 10 175 50 205 47.5 235 57.5 265 22.5 295 2.5
56 13 86 41 116 58 146 8 176 52 206 47 236 58 266 21 296 2
57 13.5 87 42 117 58.5 147 6 177 54 207 46.5 237 58.5 267 19.5 297 1.5
58 14 88 43 118 59 148 4 18 56 208 46 238 59 268 18 298 1
59 14.5 89 44 119 59.5 149 2 179 58 209 45.5 239 59.5 269 16.5 299 0.5

Full

60 Virupas

3/4

45 Virupas

1/2

30 Virupas

1/4

15 Virupas
00 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 360
Degrees from Jupiter to the Aspected

Planetary Aspects

201

Aspects of Saturn
Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR Deg VR
30 00 60 60 90 45 120 30 150 00 180 60 210 45 240 30 270 60
31 2
61 59.5 91 44.5 121 29 151 2 181 59.5 211 44.5 241 31 271 58
32 4
62 59 92 44 122 28 152 4 189259 212 44 242 32 272 56
33 6
63 58.5 93 43.5 123 27 153 6 183 58.5 213 43.5 243 33 273 54
34 8
64 58 94 43 124 26 154 8 184 58 214 43 244 34 274 52
35 10 65 57.5 95 42.5 125 25 155 10 185 57.5 215 42.5 245 35 275 50
36 12 66 57 96 42 126 24 156 12 186 57 216 42 246 36 276 48
37 14 67 56.5 97 41.5 127 23 157 14 187 56.5 217 41.5 247 37 277 46
38 16 68 56 98 41 128 22 158 16 188 56 218 41 248 38 278 44
39 18 69 55.5 99 40.5 129 21 159 18 189 55.5 219 40.5 249 39 279 42
40 20 70 55 100 40 130 20 160 20 190 55 220 40 250 40 280 40
41 22 71 54.5 101 39.5 131 19 161 22 191 54.5 221 39.5 251 41 281 38
42 24 72 54 102 39 132 18 162 24 192 54 222 39 252 42 282 36
43 26 73 53.5 103 38.5 133 17 163 26 193 53.5 223 38.5 253 43 283 34
44 28 74 53 104 38 134 16 164 28 194 53 224 38 254 44 284 32
45 30 75 52.5 105 37.5 135 15 165 30 195 52.5 225 37.5 255 45 285 30
46 32 76 52 106 37 136 14 166 32 196 52 226 37 256 46 286 28
47 34 77 51.5 107 36.5 137 13 167 34 197 51.5 227 36.5 257 47 287 26
48 36 78 51 108 36 138 12 168 36 198 51 228 36 258 48 288 24
49 38 79 50.5 109 35.5 139 11 169 38 199 50.5 229 35.5 259 49 289 22
50 40 80 50 110 35 140 10 170 40 200 50 230 35 260 50 290 20
51 42 81 49.5 111 34.5 141 9 171 42 201 49.5 231 34.5 261 51 291 18
52 44 82 49 112 34 142 8 172 44 202 49 232 34 262 52 292 16
53 46 83 48.5 113 33.5 143 7 173 46 203 48.5 233 33.5 263 53 293 14
54 48 84 48 114 33 144 6 174 48 204 48 234 33 264 54 294 12
55 50 85 47.5 115 32.5 145 5 175 50 205 47.5 235 32.5 265 55 295 10
56 52 86 47 116 32 146 4 176 52 206 47 236 32 266 56 296 8
57 54 87 46.5 117 31.5 147 3 177 54 207 46.5 237 31.5 267 57 297 6
58 56 88 46 118 31 148 2 178 56 208 46 238 31 268 58 298 4
59 58 89 45.5 119 30.5 149 1 179 58 209 45.5 239 30.5 269 59 299 2

Full

60 Virupas

3/4

45 Virupas

1/2

30 Virupas

1/4

15 Virupas
00 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 330 360
Degrees from Saturn to the Aspected

Vault of the Heavens

202

Rasi Yantra
Sketch of a yantra from the Jaipur observatory built in the 1700’s. The stairlike
centerpiece is actually a gnomon. Readings are taken on the curved sidepieces.
There are twelve of these, one for each rasi, all slightly different and pointing in
different directions.

Rasi Aspects

203

13
Rasi Aspects
A unique feature of Vedic Astrology is that not only the planets
have aspects, but also the rasis. Rasi aspects are not as commonly
used as the planetary aspects, though they are given pride of place in
Upadesa Sutras and Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra, two very ancient
and most authoritative works. Each rasi aspects three other rasis.
Following are the rasi aspects:
A moveable rasi aspects the fixed rasis, except the fixed rasi
right next to it.
Aries aspects Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius.
Cancer aspects Scorpio, Aquarius, and Taurus.
Libra aspects Aquarius, Taurus, and Leo.
Capricorn aspects Taurus, Leo, and Scorpio.
A fixed rasi aspects the movable rasis except the movable rasi
right next to it.
Taurus aspects Capricorn, Libra, and Cancer.
Leo aspects Aries, Capricorn, and Libra.
Scorpio aspects Cancer, Aries, and Capricorn.
Aquarius aspects Libra, Cancer and Aries.
A dual rasi aspects the other dual rasis.
Gemini aspects Virgo, Sagittarius, and Pisces.
Virgo aspects Gemini, Pisces and Sagittarius.
Sagittarius aspects Pisces, Gemini, and Virgo.
Pisces aspects Sagittarius, Virgo and Gemini.
Planets in a rasi aspect likewise.

Vault of the Heavens

204

In the table of rasi qualities in the chapter, “The Rasis,” the
directions were given for the rasis; in addition to that there is another
scheme of rasi direction that is used for some less common purposes.
In this scheme: Aries and Taurus govern the East, Gemini the North
East, Cancer and Leo the North, Virgo the North West, Libra and
Scorpio the West, Sagittarius the South West, Capricorn and
Aquarius the South, and Pisces governs the South East. The rasi
aspects are actually based upon each rasi aspecting the three angular
directions from it. Below is a South Indian style chart, which easily
allows one to see the aspects in this context. The aspects are drawn in
the dotted lines. A deep study of this diagram has much to offer:

E E

S

N

S

N

W W

Rasi Aspects

205

Rasi aspects present some interesting concepts:
Moveable rasis are creative; they create and are therefore
changeable. The fixed rasis are the reflections of the moveable rasis,
they themselves are therefore not changeable, they can only change
after the moveable rasis have changed. Each fixed rasi is aspected by
three moveable rasis; therefore a fixed rasi can only change after
changes have occurred in the three moveable rasis.
In order to change those things in a fixed rasi, the houses and
planets in the aspecting moveable rasis must first be changed.
Changing those things in a moveable rasi brings about some change
in the houses and planets falling in the aspected fixed rasis.
SIMPLE YOGAS INVOLVING THE LAGNA
Rasi aspects give very simple and very reliable results. Following
are some important combinations from Upadesa Sutras based upon
rasi aspects:
3rd and 6th House/Lord
The 3rd or 6th lord in or aspecting the lagna indicates a native striving
for knowledge, learned and intelligent.
The lagna lord in or aspecting the 3rd or 6th house also indicates a
native striving for knowledge, learned and intelligent.
5th House/Lord
The 5th lord in or aspecting the lagna indicates a native even more
intelligent, learned and striving for knowledge.
The lagna lord in or aspecting the 5th house also indicates a native
even more intelligent, learned and striving for knowledge.
4th House/Lord
The 4th lord in or aspecting the lagna indicates a happy native.
The lagna lord in or aspecting the 4th house indicates a happy native.

206

Vault of the Heavens

8th House/Lord
The 8th lord in or aspecting the lagna indicates a poor and roving
native.
The lagna lord in or aspecting the 8th house also indicates a poor and
roving native.
Those natives with this combination have a lot of ups, downs, and
changes in life that reduce stability, making it more difficult to be
financially secure.
12th House Lord
The 12th lord in or aspecting the lagna indicates a native in the habit
of spending.
The lagna lord in or aspecting the 12th house also indicates a native in
the habit of spending.
1st House Lord
The lagna lord aspecting the lagna indicates a strong, healthy and
great nativity.
The technique is simple, the house lord influencing the lagna, or the
lagna lord influencing a house makes that house an important
consideration for the native.

Sambandha

207

14
Sambandha
When two planets mutually influence each other they are said to
be in Sambandha. Following are the manners in which Sambandha
may occur:
ASSOCIATION
Planets in the same rasi are said to be in association, or union with
one another. This is a very powerful Sambandha; also know as a
conjunction.
RASI ASPECT
Planets in rasi aspect constitute a very powerful Sambandha.
Note: The Association and Rasi Aspect are most important for
determining Yogas, the many combinations that give specific effects.
PLANETARY ASPECT
Planets that mutually aspect each other through planetary aspects
are considered to be in Sambandha. The aspectual strength in
Virupas of the weaker aspect between the two planets indicates the
strength of the Sambandha.
DISPOSITORSHIP
1. The lord of a house (the dispositor) aspecting planets that are in
his own rasi causes Sambandha to the strength of the planetary
aspect.
2. A planet in a house aspecting the lord of that rasi (his dispositor)
causes Sambandha to the strength of the planetary aspect.

208

Vault of the Heavens

NAKSHATRAS
Planets can also have Sambandha through their nakshatra lords:
1. When two planets exchange nakshatras. For example: Mars in
Mercury's nakshatra and Mercury in Mars' nakshatra.
2. When a planet is in a nakshatra and its nakshatra lord is in the
rasi of the planet. For example: Mars in Mercury's nakshatra
and Mercury in Aries or Scorpio.
3. A planet in a nakshatra aspected by its nakshatra lord causes
Sambandha to the strength of the planetary aspect.
4. A planet in a nakshatra aspecting its nakshatra lord causes
Sambandha to the strength of the aspect.
These do not appear to be as powerful or significant as other
connections.
EXCHANGE- PARIVARTANA YOGA
When two planets exchange rasis it is known as Parivartana.
Exchange between planets is a very powerful Sambandha.
The exchange between two planets forms some important yogas
known as Parivartana Yogas, which according to Phaladeepika,
follow:
Dainya -misery- Yoga: The 6th, 8th or 12th lord exchanged with
another house lord other than another dusthana lord.
“The native with Dainya Yoga at birth will be a fool, will revile others and indulge
in sinful deeds. He is always in trouble from his enemies. He will speak harshly and
will not have a stable mind. He will encounter obstacles in all his ventures.”
“Dainya” means wretchedness, affliction, depressed, miserable.
When the 6th, 8th, or 12th lord exchanges with another house lord it
destroys the effects of the house it interchanges with. The results of
the yoga as ascribed by Phaladeepika affect primarily the houses
involved not the entire character.

Sambandha

209

1. The 6th lord creating this yoga indicates debts, obstacles and
enmity in respect to the effects of the other house.
2. The 8th lord creating this yoga indicates breaks, death and
destruction to the indications of the other house.
3. The 12th lord creating this yoga indicates expenditure on account
of, and loss of, the indications of the other house.
In the event that the 6th, 8th, or 12th lord interchanges with the 6th,
8th or 12th lord this is an auspicious yoga, known as Vipareet Raja
Yoga. Vipareet Raja Yoga destroys difficulties, gives the capacity to
overcome negativity, and causes one to learn and benefit from
difficulties. Other planets involved in this yoga, however, suffer. For
more on Vipareet Raja Yogas see the chapter entitled, “Raja Yogas.”
Khala -cruel- Yoga: The 3rd lord interchanged with another house
lord other than a dusthana lord.
“The native with Khala Yoga will occasionally be haughty and sometimes have sweet
speech. There will be occasions when he will be very prosperous and then will be
driven to poverty, unhappiness and misery.”
“Khala” means mischievous or cruel. When the 3rd lord
interchanges with lords other than the 6th, 8th, or 12th it creates ups
and downs in respect to the other house. The personal and limited
will of the 3rd lord creates obstacles and disappointments for itself, as
well as having a tendency towards selfishness. Sometimes the self-will
is able to push ahead, but it lacks the grace to maintain a positive
result. When mistakes are made, or one quits putting energy forth,
then things will generally slide. When this yoga is formed, the house
the 3rd lord interchanges with will generally be an area where the
native exhibits self-centeredness.

210

Vault of the Heavens

Maha -great- Yoga: An interchange between any two of the 1st, 2nd,
4th, 5th, 7th, 9th, 10th and 11th lords.
“The native with Maha Yoga will have the beneficence of the Goddess Sri Lakshmi
and will be adorned with expensive and beautiful clothes and ornaments. One is
revered and honored by the king. Holding a high position one will be rewarded with
authority by the king. One will be blessed by sons and fully enjoy wealth and
conveyances.”
“Maha” means great, mighty, strong, and abundant. When any of
the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 7th, 9th, 10th, and 11th lords interchange they create
great affluence, as well as support of each other’s indications.
HEMMING IN BETWEEN BENEFICS OR MALEFICS
If a planet, or house, has benefics in the 2nd and 12th rasi from it,
it is hemmed between benefics. If a planet, or house, has malefics in
the 2nd and 12th rasi from it, it is hemmed between malefics. While
not actually causing Sambandha, because there is no mutual
influence, hemming in has a significant effect, which is as powerful as
an aspect. Those planets or houses hemmed between benefics are
furthered, and those hemmed between malefics are damaged. The
dasa and antardasa of the benefics hemming a planet or house further
the indications of that which they hem in. The dasa and antardasa of
the malefics hemming a planet or house damage the indications of
that which they hem in.

Raja Yogas

211

15
Raja Yogas
Raja is a king; Raja Yogas are combinations that uplift the native
in life giving success, status, and respect. There are hundreds of Raja
Yogas in Vedic Astrology. An in depth examination of the Raja
Yogas present in a horoscope allows one to judge the heights one can
reach in life. Raja Yogas in their entirety are a separate study; the Raja
Yogas being given here are a few that are most commonly known
and utilized.
FORMATION OF RAJA YOGAS
The angles are known as Vishnusthanas, houses of Vishnu.
The trines are known as Lakshmisthanas, houses of Lakshmi.
Sambandha between the lord of a trine and the lord of an angle
forms Raja Yoga.
The angles give concrete manifestation, the trines give fortune;
their sambandha indicates fortune manifesting in the life of the
native.
The Association, Rasi Aspect and Parivartana (exchange) of the
lords of these houses forms the most significant Raja Yogas as
compared to other types of Sambandha.
Additional rules according to Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra:
1. If the angle or trine lord also owns an evil house (3rd, 6th, 11th, or
8th) then it does not cause Raja Yoga in the manner mentioned.
2. For Aries lagna, Sambandha between Saturn and Jupiter will not
produce Raja Yoga in this manner.
3. For Gemini lagna, Sambandha between Jupiter and Saturn will
not produce Raja Yoga in this manner.
4. For Leo lagna, Sambandha between Jupiter and Venus will not
produce Raja Yoga in this manner.

212

Vault of the Heavens

5. For Capricorn and Aquarius lagnas, Venus is the only planet that
gives a full-fledged Raja Yoga, according to these principles.
Note: In respect to rules 2, 3, and 4: The Parivartana between these
planets are auspicious if the exchange is between their auspicious
houses. With other types of Sambandha these combinations can give
some mediocre results, but not a full-fledged Raja Yoga.
RAJA YOGAKARAKAS
If one planet rules an angle as well as a trine it will be a specific
producer of Raja Yoga, a Yogakaraka. These planets are especially
indicative of rise and success if they are placed in an angle or trine.
This is only possible for six of the lagnas:
1. Mars for Cancer and Leo lagnas.
2. Venus for Capricorn and Aquarius lagnas.
3. Saturn for Taurus and Libra lagnas.
RAHU AND KETU AS YOGAKARAKAS
In these situations Rahu and Ketu become Raja Yogakarakas, planets
that produce rise and success:
1. Rahu or Ketu in an angle, and aspected by or with a trine lord.
2. Rahu or Ketu in a trine, and aspected by or with an angle lord.
Again, these are most significant when the aspects are rasi aspects,
rather than planetary aspects.
RAJA YOGAS IN THE NAVAMSA
In the navamsa there are two manners in which these types of
Raja Yogas may be formed:
1. An angle and trine lord from the rasi chart being conjunct in the
navamsa, aspecting each other through rasi aspect in the
navamsa, or in parivartana in the navamsa.

Raja Yogas

213

2. Rahu or Ketu in an angle in the rasi chart, being conjunct or
aspected in the navamsa by a trine lord from the rasi chart.
3. Rahu or Ketu in a trine in the rasi chart, being conjunct or
aspected in the navamsa by an angular lord from the rasi chart.
4. Reading the navamsa independently all these Raja Yogas can be
considered from the navamsa lagna.
In the event that a planet forms Raja Yoga in the rasi as well in
the navamsa, then that planet is indicative of greater rise and success.
VIPAREET RAJA YOGAS
Another common type of raja yoga is the Vipareet Raja Yoga.
These yogas involve the dusthanas and give success and upliftment in
life by removing the obstacles to one's success. The results attributed
by PhalaDeepika are as follows:
Harsha -thrilling pleasure- Yoga: 6th, 8th or 12th lord in the 6th
house.
“One is endowed with happiness, enjoyment, children, good fortune, and a strong
constitution. One will overcome their enemies, and will be fearful of committing sinful
acts. A friend of illustrious and prominent people, one will have wealth, splendor,
friends, and fame.”
Sarala -straight- Yoga: 6th, 8th or 12th lord in the 8th house.
“One will be long-lived, resolute, fearless, prosperous and endowed with learning,
children and riches. Pure, one will achieve success in his undertakings, overcome his
foes, and be widely celebrated.”
Sarala means straight in the sense of honest, sincere, candid,
artless, simple, etc.
Vimala -pure- Yoga: 6th, 8th or 12th lord in the 12th house.
“One will be good to everybody; happy, frugal, and independent, one is renowned
for their good qualities, having a respectable profession and conduct.”

214

Vault of the Heavens

Following are a few guidelines essential for the proper judgment of
Vipareet Raja Yogas:
1. Other planets joining the lords of the 6th, 8th or 12th that may be
causing Vipareet Raja Yogas suffer, these yogas are then
considered blemished and not capable of producing such good
results. The influence of dusthana lords on dusthanas indicates
that many difficult results of karma are destroyed, however, any
planet involved with these dusthana lords indicates an area of life
where there is still some difficult karma to reap, or some
unhealthy tendencies to relinquish, therefore that planet's
indications suffer greatly.
2. If the 6th, 8th or 12th lord is a malefic and in its own 6th, 8th or 12th
house with Rahu or Ketu then there may be serious trouble with
wealth and health. This is particularly so if another planet that is
not a dusthana lord joins.
3. The lords of the 6th, 8th and 12th houses in Sambandha give
similar, though not as significant, effects.

Yoga Karakas

215

16
Yoga Karakas
Planets in angles from each other are considered to be of great
importance in all systems of astrology. Western astrologers place
particular emphasis to planets in square, 90 degrees, or 4/10 position
from each other. They consider these planets to indicate
developmental tension that is a result of some early stress that the
native has to work out and develop into something useful. In fact the
age of this stress can be determined simply by the amount of degrees
the two concerned planets are from an exact 90 degrees aspect.
Western astrologers consider planets in square to indicate great
potential for the native, which one may be able to utilize with the
proper effort. It is only through the techniques offered in Vedic
astrology, however, that it can be determined whether this potential
will be utilized. The Yoga Karaka Planets will indicate this. These
Karaka Planets are not to be confused with the Yogakarakas as
previously mentioned.
Karaka means, “that which produces or creates.” Yoga Karaka
Planets are two or more planets that join forces to produce “yoga,” in
this context meaning “rise in life”. These planets also support and
assist each other; in so doing they exponentially increase the degree
of effects over that which would be given if the planets had no
support.
Two or more planets in angles identical with own, exaltation, or
friendly rasis become Yoga Karakas. Some say planets in their
own navamsa qualify as well.
Planets placed in mutual angles to each other (1st, 4th, 7th, or
10th), but in houses other than angles, with the dignities
mentioned, also become Yoga Karakas.

216

Vault of the Heavens

These principles indicate that for planets to manifest potential
while they are in 4/10 or in 7th from each other it is desirable that
they be in good dignity.
Some additional rules for judging the inter-relationship of Yoga
Karaka Planets are being given:
1. A planet in the 10th house of the horoscope is especially
significant when it becomes a Yoga Karaka.
2. The Yoga Karaka in the tenth house from another Yoga Karaka
is the more significant for giving rise in life as well as producing
effects beneficial to the Yoga Karaka it is in the 10th from.
3. The Sun in the 10th house from the lagna as a Yoga Karaka is
especially significant.
4. The planets occupying the 4th and 10th from a planet in the lagna
are the Karakas to the planet in the lagna, but the planet in the
lagna is not a Karaka to them. These Karakas in the 4th and 10th
operate under the sanction and to the benefit of the planet in the
lagna. The planets in the 4th and 10th are more significant to give
rise in life and success in their dasas. An extension of this
principle applies to a planet not only in the lagna, but also to any
planet with Yoga Karaka Planets in the 4th and 10th from it. This
lends credit to the potential western astrologers attribute to the
T-square and Grand Cross.
Yoga Karaka Planets strengthen the horoscope in the following ways:
1. They give success and upliftment in their dasas.
2. They assist the native in rising above the family average.
3. Other yogas in the horoscope significantly improve and are more
productive in the event that the planets forming them benefit
through Yoga Karaka Planets.
4. The indications of the concerned planets mutually flourish,
support and benefit each other.
5. The dasas and antardasas of these planets are beneficial and give
fulfillment of the planets indications and lordships.

Navamsa

217

17
Navamsa
Vedic astrology makes use of several divisional charts in order to
analyze the horoscope completely. These divisional charts are known
as Vargas Amongst the many Vargas the most important is the
navamsa, or ninth division:
The navamsa is derived by dividing each rasi into nine portions
of 3 degrees and 20 minutes. The first navamsa of a rasi belongs
to the cardinal rasi of that element. The other navamsas follow
in the regular order of the rasis.
For instance, the first navamsa of Leo, a fiery rasi, is governed by
Aries the cardinal fire rasi. The second navamsa of Leo is governed
by Taurus, and so on.
In total there are 108 navamsas in the zodiac. Each navamsa is
also one pada, or one quarter, of a nakshatra. Three navamsas equal
10 degrees. The following table illustrates the navamsas:
Fire Rasis
Earth Rasis
Air Rasis
Water Rasis
Degrees D H L M E I J N F G K O
00-3:20
D
M
J
G
3:20-6:40
E
N
K
H
6:40-10
F
O
L
I
10-13:20
G
D
M
J
13:20-16:40
H
E
N
K
16:40-20
I
F
O
L
20-23:20
J
G
D
M
23:20-26:40
K
H
E
N
26:40-30
L
I
F
O

218

Vault of the Heavens

A chart is erected with all of the planets and the lagna in their
respective navamsas. This navamsa chart is a very important factor
for reading horoscopes. There are many techniques for using the
navamsa, though it is most effectively used in conjunction with the
rasi chart. Forthcoming chapters will explain some uses of the
navamsa chart.
NAVAMSA IN DASA ANALYSIS
The dasa lord gives the effects of the planets falling in their
navamsas. These effects will be auspicious or inauspicious dependent
upon the influences upon the dasa lord.
VARGOTTAMA
Vargottama is the term used to describe a planet that is in the
same rasi in the navamsa chart as it is in the rasi chart. The term
means “the best or highest division.” The first navamsa (00-3:20
degrees) of a movable rasi, the middle navamsa (13:20-16:40 degrees)
of a fixed rasi, and the last navamsa (26:40-30 degrees) of a dual rasi
are the vargottama navamsas.
A planet in vargottama is capable of more significant auspicious
effects. It is also more consistent in its effects. Malefics in vargottama
are not destructive, and though giving difficulties along the way, they
generally provide success and obtainment to those things they join or
rasi aspect. Furthermore, the dasa of a planet in Vargottama is very
good, but if the planet is also debilitated or combust the dasa is
mixed.
The following yoga from Jataka Parijata indicates the auspicious
effect of a planet in vargottama:
“The individual, born when the lagna or Moon is Vargottama will be happy and
prosperous throughout life.”
And from Hora Ratnam:
“One born in a vargottama lagna will be prime among his clan.”

Dispositors

219

18
Dispositors
The lord of the rasi in which a particular planet is placed is known
as the dispositor of that planet. The dispositor has an important
influence on the planets it rules; the residents of a house can only
enjoy as much prosperity as does the lord of the house. We have
already shown the importance of dispositors in causing
Neechabhanga Raja Yogas, cancellation of debilitation. By the same
token, if a planet is exalted, or otherwise well situated, and its
dispositor is poorly placed, then the planet will not be able to do
what one would expect of it.
The role of dispositors is also important in judging the benefic or
malefic nature of a planet. If a malefic planet such as Mars is the
dispositor of two benefics, such as Mercury and Venus, his malefic
nature will be toned down and modified to some degree by these
planets which he lords over. Similarly, a malefic planet like Mars as
the dispositor of other malefics, say Saturn and Rahu, increases his
malefic nature. A man is known by the company he keeps and if he
has demons living in his house he must be of like nature.
Finally, the dispositor of a planet affects the motivation and
temporal disposition of a planet. It can do so in the following ways:
1. If the final dispositor of a temporal benefic is a temporal malefic,
the temporal benefic operates under the sanction, and therefore
motivation, of the temporal malefic.
2. If the final dispositor of a temporal malefic is a temporal benefic,
the temporal malefic operates under the sanction, and therefore
motivation, of the temporal benefic.
An example of a final dispositor: If the Sun is in Gemini, ruled by
Mercury, Mercury is in Taurus, ruled by Venus, and Venus is in Libra,

220

Vault of the Heavens

her own sign; then Venus becomes the final dispositor of the Sun
and Mercury, who both therefore operate under Venus’ sanction.
The planets which are the final dispositors within a horoscope are
of great importance for determining what motivational impulse the
native is operating under, be it for his own sake as the doer, for
dharma’s sake, from self-will or wisdom, etc. Four possibilities exist:
1. Sometimes there is only one final dispositor in the horoscope;
this is a true final dispositor. In this case the motivational impulse
of the individual is easily determined by analyzing this planet.
2. More often there are two or three final dispositors. In this case
the planet that rules more planets will indicate the most
significant motivational impulse. To be more exact: the planet
that rules the greater total in Shad Bala of planets, including itself,
will indicate the most powerful motivational impulse.
3. Sometimes two or more planets will dispose over each other in a
continuous circuit. For instance Mars is in Mercury’s house and
Mercury is in Venus’ house, Venus is in Mars’ house, which is, as
already stated, in Mercury’s house. In this case the total Shad
Balas of all the temporal benefics should be compared to the total
Shad Balas of all the temporal malefics. The higher indicates the
motivational impulse.
4. Often a neutral planet will be the final dispositor. Temporally
neutral planets are angular lords, the 2nd, 8th, and 12th lords, when
they are in these houses respectively they become a neutral final
dispositor. In this case the total Shad Balas of all the temporal
benefics disposed by the temporal neutral should be compared to
the total Shad Balas of all the temporal malefics disposed by the
temporal neutral. The higher indicates the motivational impulse.
5. Most importantly the final dispositor, or final dispositors,
whatever the case may be, indicate the important theme or
themes in life, dependent upon the houses they are in.

Dispositors

221

DISPOSITORS AND DASA RESULTS
A planet can become a dispositor in three ways:
1. By ruling a planet in the rasi chart. This becomes the rasi
dispositor.
2. By ruling a planet’s navamsa. This becomes the navamsa
dispositor.
3. By ruling a planet’s nakshatra. This becomes the nakshatra
dispositor.
In all these cases a planet, during its dasa, will give the effects of
the planets it is the dispositor of. If the dasa lord is well situated, then
those planets it is disposing will flourish. If the dasa lord is poorly
situated, then those planets it is disposing will suffer. This is an
important principle necessary to judge the full effects of a dasa lord.
DISPOSITORS IN JUDGING THE HOROSCOPE
The rasi, navamsa and nakshatra dispositors of any planet may be
considered in order to more fully judge the well being or otherwise of
any planet.

222

Vault of the Heavens

A Western horoscope that has been verified (in May 1864) to be by the hand of
the great German astronomer, Johannes Kepler. In the West, as in the East,
the old astronomers were astrologers. The horoscope is one of Hans Hannibal
Hutter von Huttershofen, an Austrian nobleman, born at 5 p.m. on September
10, 1586. The horoscope was found at the University of California, Santa Cruz,
McHenry Library, which holds some early records of observatories.
The chart is similar to the North Indian style chart. The only difference is that
the ascendant is on the left, while in the Indian chart the ascendant is at the top.
Until recent years Western Astrologers used this type of chart.

Shad Bala

223

19
Shad Bala
Shad Bala is a sophisticated method for determining the inherent
strength of a planet. Inherent strength is purely a measurement of raw
strength; it is completely different from auspicious strength. Shad
Bala simply measures the amount of weight a planet can carry,
whether it is carrying lead or gold other factors determine. Shad
means six, and Bala means strength. Shad Bala refers to six particular
sources that a planet derives its strength from. Following is a brief
description of the six sources of strength that constitute Shad Bala:
STHANA BALA- POSITIONAL STRENGTH
1. Uccha Bala- Exaltation strength: A planet in deep exaltation gains
60 virupas of strength, in deep debilitation it gains none, in
between a fraction of 60 virupas is given.
2. Saptavarga Bala- Strength from the seven divisional charts: In the
rasi, hora, drekkana, saptamsa, navamsa, dvadasamsa, and
trimsamsa planets gain 45 virupas in moolatrikona, 30 in own
rasi, 20 in a great friends rasi, 15 in a friends rasi, 10 in a neutral’s
rasi, 4 in an enemies rasi, and 2 in a great enemies rasi.
3. Ojayugmarasyamsa Bala- Odd and even rasi and navamsa
strength: Venus and the Moon gain 15 virupas in an even rasi and
15 virupas in an even navamsa, the other planets gain this odd
rasis and navamsas.
4. Kendra Bala- Angular strength: A planet in an angle gains 60
virupas, in a panapara 30, and in apoklimas 15.
5. Drekkana Bala: Male planets gain 15 virupas in the first drekkana
of a rasi, female planets gain 15 in the second drekkana of a rasi
and neuter planets gain 15 in the third drekkana of a rasi.
Drekkana is 1/3 of a rasi.

Vault of the Heavens

224

A planet is particularly strong in Sthana Bala when the Sthana Bala
virupas are no less than:
Sun
165VR

Moon
133VR

Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus
96VR
165VR 165VR 133VR

Saturn
96VR

“A planet strong in Sthana Bala indicates abundant fortune, honor, wealth,
skillfulness, energy, and the ability to destroy the power of one’s enemies.”
-Sambhu Hora Prakasa, 12, 1

DIG BALA- DIRECTIONAL STRENGTH
The Sun and Mars are strong in the 10th house, the Moon and
Venus in the 4th, Jupiter and Mercury in the 1st and Saturn in the 7th.
A planet gains 60 virupas when on the house cusp of the house it has
digbala in, on the opposite house cusp it gains zero. In between it
gains a fraction of 60 virupas.
A planet is particularly strong in Dig Bala when the Dig Bala Virupas
are no less than:
Sun
35VR

Moon
50VR

Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus
30VR
35VR
35VR
50VR

Saturn
30VR

“A planet with Dig Bala will lead the native, in its dasa, to the direction indicated by
it, giving them honors, gains and happiness.”
-Sambhu Hora Prakasa, 12, 2
KALA BALA- TIME STRENGTH
1. Nathonnatha Bala- Night/day strength: Moon, Mars and Saturn
gain 60 virupas of strength at midnight and 0 at midday. The Sun,
Jupiter and Venus gain 60 virupas at midday and 0 at midnight.
Mercury gains full strength at all times.
2. Paksha Bala: At full Moon the benefics gain 60 virupas, the
malefics 0. When the Moon is completely dark the malefics gain
60 virupas and the benefics 0. In between they gain a ratio of the
above.

Shad Bala

225

3. Tribhaga Bala- Third portion strength: Mercury gains 60 virupas
in the first 3rd of the daytime, the Sun gains 60 in the second 3rd
of the daytime, Saturn gains 60 in the last 3rd of the daytime, the
Moon gains 60 in the first 3rd of the night, Venus gains 60 in the
second 3rd of the night, and Mars gains 60 virupas in the last 3rd
of the night. Jupiter gains 60 virupas at all times.
4. Abda Bala- Year strength: The year lord gains 15 virupas.
5. Masa Bala- Month strength: The lord of the month gains 30
virupas.
6. Vara Bala- Day strength: The lord of the day gains 45 virupas.
7. Hora Bala- Hour strength: the lord of the hora gains 60 virupas.
8. Ayana Bala- strength due to the planets being north or south of
the equator: A complex calculation, the Moon and Saturn gain 60
virupas in the south and 0 in the north, the others, except
Mercury, gain 60 in the north and 0 in the south, Mercury gains
60 in the north, 60 in the south and 30 in the exact middle. A
planet is particularly strong in Ayana Bala when the Ayana Bala
Virupas are no less than:
Sun
30VR

Moon
40VR

Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus
20VR
30VR
30VR
40VR

Saturn
20VR

A planet is particularly strong in Kala Bala when the Kala Bala
Virupas are no less than:
Sun
112VR

Moon
100VR

Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus
67VR
112VR 112VR 100VR

Saturn
67VR

“A planet with Kala Bala destroys one’s enemies and increases possessions, lands,
elephants and horses. The native enjoys gems, robes, fame pleasures, and gains
wealth.”
-Sambhu Hora Prakasa, 12, 3
CHESHTA BALA- MOTIONAL STRENGTH
A complex calculation involving the mean longitude, the true
longitude and the apogee of the planets. The basic idea is that a

Vault of the Heavens

226

planet gains 60 virupas when it is closest in its course to the Earth
during which time it is retrograde, and 0 virupas when it is behind the
Sun. The Sun’s Cheshta Bala is the same as his ayana bala, and the
Moon’s is the same as his Paksha Bala.
A planet is particularly strong in Cheshta Bala when the Cheshta
Bala Virupas are no less than:
Sun
50VR

Moon
30VR

Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus
40VR
50VR
50VR
30VR

Saturn
40VR

“The planet with Cheshta Bala sometimes grants kingship, sometimes devotion,
sometimes wealth, and sometimes glory.”
-Jataka Bharnam, 35, 7
NAISARGIKA BALA- NATURAL STRENGTH
Strength due to the planet’s natural brilliance. Sun, Moon, Venus,
Jupiter, Mercury, Mars and Saturn are in their order the strongest to
the weakest. Divide 60 by 7 and multiply this by 7 for the Sun, 6 for
the Moon, 5 for Venus, 4 for Jupiter, 3 for Mercury, 2 for Mars, and
1 for Saturn.
DRIK BALA- ASPECTUAL STRENGTH
Benefics aspecting lend strength, malefics reduce strength. One
quarter of malefic aspect is deducted and ¼ of benefic aspect is
added, except for Mercury and Jupiter of which the full aspect is
added.
YUDDHA BALA- WAR STRENGTH
In the event that there is a planetary war between two planets, the
victorious planet gains strength and the other looses strength.
Subtract the total of the lower strength from the higher, the winner
gains this difference, the other looses it.
As can be seen, Shad Bala is a very comprehensive method for
determining the strength of a planet. Shad Bala has many uses, only a
few are discussed in this work. The planet that is strongest in Shad

Shad Bala

227

Bala represents the Samskara, or mental tendency, which is the most
deeply grooved in the native’s consciousness. This gives us great
insights into the character of an individual and allows for some very
effective counseling.
In the lesson on dispositors we demonstrate how to determine the
ruling motivational impulse within the native. Usually the strongest
planet in Shad Bala is not the same planet that is indicative of the
ruling motivational impulse as determined by dispositors. In this case
the planet which is indicative of the ruling motivational impulse, as
determined by the dispositor, still lords over the tendencies and
motivations of the other planet which is higher in Shad Bala. See it as
a king who has a minister stronger and more able than him. He is still
the king, but uses the minister’s strength to serve him.
Shad Bala does not calculate the strength of Rahu and Ketu; they
again remain undefined. For Rahu and Ketu, the Shad Bala of their
lords may be utilized effectively.
SHAD BALA IN DASA ANALYSIS
If the dasa lord and bukti lord have contrary indications in the
horoscope, the planet that is strongest in Shad Bala will indicate the
outcome. For example if the dasa lord is favorable for marriage, but
the bukti lord is unfavorable for marriage, and if the bukti lord is
stronger than the dasa lord the marriage will be severely threatened
and separation would be indicated. If, however, the bukti lord is
weaker than the dasa lord, then the marriage will be a bit rocky, but
due to the strength of the dasa lord the marriage would remain intact.

Vault of the Heavens

228

Tropic of
Capricorn

Celestial
Equator

Tropic of
Cancer

The Ecliptic, the apparent path of the Sun, is at an angle to the Celestial
Equator. The Celestial Equator is the equator of the Earth extended towards
the heavens. How far a planet is north or south of the Celestial Equator
determines its Ayana Bala.

Vimshottari Dasa

229

20
Vimshottari Dasa
One of the great and unique features of Vedic astrology is its use
of Dasa systems for timing events. The Dasas indicate the operational
periods of the planets during which the planets give their results as indicated in the
horoscope.
There are many different Dasa systems available and they all have
their use and purpose. The most widely used Dasa system is known
as the Vimshottari Dasa. Vimshottari refers to the 120-year length of
this particular system. The classical works on astrology praise the
Vimshottari Dasa:
“Dasas are on many kinds, amongst them Vimshottari is the most appropriate for
the general populace.”
-Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra
“Being convinced that they are unfailing, I take out the essence from the astrological
scripts containing his (Parashara’s) famous sayings and set forth the famous
MahaDasa (Vimshottari)”.
-Phaladeepika
The basis of calculating Vimshottari Dasa is the position of the
Moon at birth. This is because all things are born out of
consciousness, which the Moon indicates. We also experience life in
our consciousness, through the agency of the Manas, or sense mind,
also represented by the Moon.
Vimshottari Dasa is particularly important because the Dasa order
is based upon the planetary rulers of the nakshatras. It is the lord of
the nakshatra in which the Moon falls at birth that becomes the lord
of the first Maha Dasa. The succeeding Dasa lords fall in the order of
the nakshatra lords. Since Vimshottari Dasa follows the natural order
of the nakshatras it is of prime importance and universally applicable.

Vault of the Heavens

230

CALCULATING VIMSHOTTARI DASA
Following are the duration of each planet’s period in Vimshottari
Dasa:
1. Sun- 6 years
2. Moon- 10 years
3. Mars- 7 years

4. Rahu- 18 years
5. Jupiter- 16 years
6. Saturn- 19 years

7. Mercury- 17 years
8. Ketu- 7 years
9. Venus- 20 years

To calculate the Maha Dasa:
1. Determine the planetary lord of the nakshatra in which the Moon
is placed at birth. This determines the planetary period governing
at birth. You can look this up in the nakshatra tables given
previously.
2. Next calculate the duration of this first period. To do so,
determine the minutes the Moon has yet to travel to reach the
end of the Nakshatra it is placed in. Divide this by 800, the
amount of minutes in a Nakshatra. Multiply this fraction by the
length of the particular planet’s period as given in the table
above.
3. Subsequent periods follow in the order as given in the table.
These periods are known as a Maha Dasa, or simply Dasa. Each
Dasa is further divided into nine sub-periods for each of the nine
planets; this is known as a Bukti in South India, and an Antardasa in
North India.
To calculate the duration of each Antardasa:
1. Multiply the duration of the Maha dasa lord's period as given in
the table by the duration of the sub-lord's period as given in the
table.
2. Divide this by 120, the total amount of years in the Vimshottari
Dasa. This yields the duration of the sub-period in years and
fraction of a year.
3. Multiply the fraction of the year by 365 ¼ to arrive at the days.

Vimshottari Dasa

231

Or:
1. Multiply the duration of the Maha dasa lord's period as given in
the table by the length of the sub-lord's period as given in the
table.
2. The last digit multiplied by 3 indicates the days, the previous
digits indicates the months.
FURTHER DIVISIONS
1. Each Sub-period is further divided into nine third-level periods,
or sub-sub-period, known as the Pratyantar Dasa in North India
or the Antardasa in South India.
2. Each sub-sub-period is further divided into nine forth-level
periods known as Sookshma Dasas.
3. Each Sookshma Dasa is further divided into nine fifth-level
periods known as Prana Dasas.
DASA, ANTARDASA, AND PRATYANTARDASA LORDS
1. The Maha Dasa lord indicates a general trend and a long-term
focus.
2. The Antardasa lord indicates a specific trend and focus. This
trend may or may not be in harmony with the Maha Dasa.
3. The Pratyantar lord fructifies events and indicates the ups and
downs within the specific trend of the Antardasa.
For practical purposes most astrologers work down to the third
level Pratyantar Dasa. Divisions further than this result in very short
periods of time that may be misleading if the birth time is not
extremely accurate. During the longer Dasas, the forth-level
Sookshma Dasa will still be quite accurate.
There are several thumb rules for interpreting the Vimshottari
Dasa. Following are those rules that are most significant for
understanding the affects upon the native’s growth, evolution,
psychology and life events. Psychology, for our purposes, means where the
mind is.

232

Vault of the Heavens

SAMSKARAS- THE MENTAL TENDENCIES
“During the auspicious Dasa of a planet men’s inner mind assumes a benefic
character and leads them to attain much happiness and wealth. By means of the
effects described for the several Dasa periods one can easily conjecture the tide of
events a man may have at any particular period as a result of the effects of the Dasa
ruling at the time. When planets are void of strength the effects make themselves felt
only in dreams and thoughts”
-Jataka Parijata 18, 13
The horoscope is a map of the native’s Samskaras. The Samskaras
are the mental tendencies carried over from previous existences that
motivate our actions, thereby creating events in our life. Samskaras
are created through repetitive actions and thoughts in this and
previous lives. It is the planets that are indicative of our Samskaras.
Vimshottari Dasa allows the astrologer to see which Samskaras are arising
within the native during a given period of their life. This allows the astrologer
to predict what an individual’s nature and desire will consist of in the
future. Oftentimes the native may insist that he has no such desires
or would never behave in the manner that the planets (the
Samskaras) are indicating in the future, but that does not keep the
Samskaras from arising when the Dasa comes.
NATURE OF THE DASA- ROHINI, ETC.
1. The dasa of a planet moving towards deep exaltation is called
Rohini, growing. Whatever is started under the influence of this
dasa grows and becomes more in the natives life. If the planet is
in debilitation navamsa or enemy's navamsa, however, the dasa
gives very little benefic effects. If a planet is retrograde, its
motion is in the reverse.
2. The dasa of a planet moving towards deep debilitation is called
Avarohini, descending. Whatever is started under the influence of
this dasa is likely to deteriorate over time. If this planet is in a
friendly, exalted, or own navamsa, or in Madhya (see below) the
dasa will be somewhat fruitful and middling in effects. If a planet
is retrograde, its motion is in the reverse.

Vimshottari Dasa

233

3. The dasa of a planet in deep debilitation is called Rikta, empty.
This dasa has nothing to offer.
4. The dasa of a planet placed between debilitation and enemy
navamsa is called Adhama, worst. This is not common, but when
present it proves to be a difficult period.
5. The dasa of a planet in own or friendly rasi is called Madhya,
medium, it gives mixed effects.
6. The dasa of a planet in extreme debilitation, or in debilitation or
inimical navamsa is called Anishta, unfavorable, causing loss of
health, wealth, etc.
TRANSITION FROM ONE DASA TO THE NEXT
“All the planets, during their own Antardasa in their own Dasa, do not give good or
bad results according to their own nature. The lord of the Dasa gives his own results
in the AntarDasa of those planets who are related to him, or are of like nature and
give similar results.”
-Laghu Parashari 4, 29-30
This is to say that a planet indicating benefic results, either due to
his nature as a natural benefic or due to his yoga producing qualities,
will not give the majority of his benefic results in the beginning of his
own Dasa, during his own Antardasa. He will rather give them in the
Antardasa of planets that are related to him or of similar benefic
nature or results. The same applies in the case of the beginning of the
Dasa of a planet indicating malefic results, either due to his natural
malefic nature or any malefic combinations he may form. He will not
give the majority of his malefic results in his own Antardasa, but
rather in the Antardasa of the planets related to him or of similar
malefic nature or results. This holds true with respect to predicting
any event, if the Maha Dasa lord is promising an event, it will not
give that event in its own bukti, but in the bukti of another planet
also promising that event.
“In its own bukti the dasa lord does not give its own results; it gives the results of the
previous bukti modified by its own nature; the results of the previous bukti continue.”

234

Vault of the Heavens

This is due to the effect of making the transition from one Dasa
to another. During this transition it takes some time for the new
Dasa lord to gain strength and shake off the effects of the preceding
Dasa before he can truly give his own effects.
During the last Antardasa of a Dasa, particularly the last year, the
native will begin to experience a huge transition. This will generally
create an element of confusion, environmental resistance,
destruction, need for freedom and/or discontent. The transition will
not be fully complete until the end of the first Antardasa of the next
Dasa.
“In the event that the dasa lord gives its results during its own antardasa it will not
give its results during the antardasas of other planets; but this will happen only if the
dasa lord is very strong and the other planets comparatively weak.”
If the dasa lord is the strongest amongst all the planets that are
indicating something specific to happen, then that will happen in the
antardasa of the dasa lord himself. Shad Bala strength should be
considered for this. If what was acquired by this very strong dasa lord
in its own antardasa is lost later in its dasa, it is not likely that the
native will gain that again at a later point in that dasa.
RESULTS DUE TO THE NATURAL CHARACTERISTICS
During their periods, planets produce results due to their natural
qualities and indications. This may result in the gain or loss of their
indications depending upon their disposition within the horoscope. Very
generally, and not to limit, the planets yield the following:
Sun
Gain, or loss, of self-esteem, individuality, status and respect.
Issues revolving around the father. Desire for accomplishment.
Health and vitality, or the lack of. Masculine energy being cultivated.
Opportunity to find oneself and make one’s place in the world.
Opportunity for the self to express itself at its finest.

Vimshottari Dasa

235

Moon
Happiness and comfort with self and all, or misery, discontent,
depression and mental illness. Issues revolving around the mother.
Feminine energy being cultivated. Opportunity for enjoyment.
Socially inclined.
Mars
Gain, or loss, through struggle and adversity. Concerns with
siblings and teammates. Use or abuse of will and strength.
Opportunity to actively participate through the agency of the will to
better one’s material or spiritual life through disciplined activity.
Accidents and quarrels are more likely.
Rahu
Interest in all things foreign and strange. Intense desires and
compulsions. Loss of direction and morals. Discontent and longing.
Illness and mental disorders. Wandering in strange places and
searching for the intangible. Learning evolutionary lessons in the
areas in which the native is karmatically weak. Opportunity to create
balance in life.
Jupiter
Purity of heart and goodwill Virtue and spiritual search. Learning,
and listening in on religious and philosophical discourses. Practice of
spiritual activities. Attempts to define a meaningful belief system.
Concerns with children. Opportunity to cultivate wisdom and
knowledge.
Saturn
Confrontation of fears and insecurities. Overcoming limiting
psychological framework and complexes. Isolation and inertia. Desire
for hard earned comfort and security. Carrying karmic and restrictive
burdens.

236

Vault of the Heavens

Mercury
Contentment, desire to do good work. Friendship, and ease in
obtainment. Freshness and desire to live a balanced life. Skillfulness
and intelligence leads to security and attainment.
Ketu
Destructive tendencies, strange illness, and intense discontents.
Spiritual longings, deep insights, and success in spiritual endeavors
become possible. Enjoying or suffering the results of powerful past
life karmas. Completions and resultant freedom.
Venus
Passion and desire for comfort, luxuries and love arise. Desire for
sharing and human companionship. Success or inability to enjoy
worldly delights. Gaining what one values in life. Opportunity to
enjoy the world. Greater interest in music and the arts.
CONSTITUTIONAL AND ELEMENTAL EFFECTS
The Maha Dasa lord will affect the native’s constitutional
temperament. The Doshas (humor) of the Dasa lord will rise in the
native’s metabolism during its period. That is why people will have a
somewhat differing metabolism throughout their lives. The Doshas
ruled by the planets are given in the chapter, “Description and
Indications of the Planets.”
The Maha Dasa lord will also affect the balance of the five
elements, by giving rise to the element that it rules. Following are the
results attributed to the rise of the elements as given in Brihat
Parashara Hora Sastra:
“When there is a rise of fiery element (Mars, Sun) the person shines like gold, his
eyes shower purity, he achieves success in all his pursuits, conquers and acquires
good wealth.”

Vimshottari Dasa

237

“When there is a rise of the earthy element (Mercury) the body of the person will
emit likable fragrance; he possesses neat nails, hair and teeth. He is religious and is
bestowed with wealth and happiness.”
“The rise of the ethereal element (Jupiter) will confer a beautiful voice, confer
eloquence and by listening to his sweet voice one gets solace.”
“When there is a rise of watery element (Venus, Moon) the person will be graceful
and have sound health. Getting food of his own taste he remains quite happy.”
“When the airy element (Saturn) rises the person becomes dirty, foolish, struck with
poverty, contracts airy diseases and faces sorrows and agonies.”
RESULTS DUE TO SPECIFIC INDICATIONS
During their Dasas, the planets also yield specific results
depending upon their lordship, placement, aspects and yogas. This is
the gist of Vedic Astrology, being very vast in its entirety, containing
all that has been covered so far in this work, plus much more. The
many indications of the planets awaken and give their effects in their
respective Dasas. A few important specific effects are given in the
remainder of this chapter.
RESULTS DUE TO HOUSE LORDSHIP
Following are the specific effects of the house lords according to
Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra, along with some additional notes:
“During the Dasa of the lagna lord the native enjoys health and high fame.”
During the Dasa of the Lagna lord the native attempts to find his
place and purpose in life. This is generally a good period during
which the native will find himself faring nicely in life, unless the
Lagna lord is afflicted.
“In the Dasa of the lord of the 2nd house, conflicts and fear of death arise.”
During the Dasa of the 2nd lord the native will make efforts to
acquire and benefit from those indications determined by:

238

Vault of the Heavens

1. The house wherein it is placed.
2. The planets it is joined or aspecting.
3. The planets in the 2nd house.
“In the Dasa of the lord of the 3rd house, unfavorable results will be anticipated.”
During the Dasa of the 3rd lord the native will pursue, with
generally self-willed interest, the desires indicated by:
1. The house wherein it is placed.
2. Planets in the 3rd house.
3. Planets it is associated with or aspecting.
“In the Dasa of the lord of the 4th house, there is luxury of house and land.”
During the Dasa of the 4th lord the native will attempt to find
happiness and security, internally and/or externally.
“In the Dasa of the lord of the 5th house, progress in education and pleasure of
children occur.”
During the Dasa of the 5th lord the creative intelligence manifests.
This results in education that inspires one's creativity, children, and
spiritual practices.
“In the 6th lords Dasa, there is physical suffering and danger from enemies.”
During the Dasa of the 6th lord obstacles come that force the
native to improve himself in respect to his material life, health,
relationships and his general direction in life. These obstacles come
as financial difficulties, illness, accidents, enemies and divorce. These
struggles also come in order to teach Karma Yoga principles; the
human right is for activity, not the results of the activity. This
principle can well be learned at this time because the results are
generally not forthcoming.
“During the Dasa of the lord of the 7th house there will be danger to wife and fear
of death.”
During the Dasa if the 7th lord there will be the desire for
relationships and public recognition.

Vimshottari Dasa

239

“In the Dasa of the 8th lord, there is loss of wealth and danger of life.”
During the Dasa of the 8th lord the native will undergo radical
changes is his life direction. These changes will be the result of major
transformations in the areas affected by the 8th lord. The 8th lord
desires to establish the self in a more secure emotional/spiritual
space. This requires the destruction of some old structures that give
life to the new. Old worn out patterns will reveal themselves as no
longer effective, often through the agent of a crisis. Oftentimes this
will require the native to undergo purification processes of some sort
for improper actions from the past that will come as great emotional
and/or physical crisis.
“During the Dasa of the 9th lord, fabulous gain of wealth and fame results.”
One will have meaning and purpose to life, possibly as a result of
some religious or philosophical approach.
“In the Dasa of the 10th lord recognition from state or authorities occurs.”
During the Dasa of the 10th lord the native will attempt to make
his mark on the world and acquire status.
“In the Dasa of the lord of the 11th house, gains, obstacles and fear of sickness
occur.”
During the Dasa of the 11th lord the native will pursue his greatest
desires indicated by:
1. Planets in the 11th house.
2. Planets the 11th lord is associated with or aspecting.
3. The house wherein the 11th lord is placed.
“In the Dasa of the 12th house the native faces extensive distress.”
During the Dasa of the 12th lord the native will suffer losses in the
areas that the 12th lord affects. These losses may be either monetary,
or of the indications represented by the planets and houses which the
12th lord is affecting.
The 12th lord also awakens the desire for escape during its period.
Whether this is done through constructive, spiritual channels, or

240

Vault of the Heavens

through destructive ones is dependant upon the combinations and
placement of the 12th lord, as well as the general spiritual nature of
the horoscope.
POSITION OF ANTARDASA LORD FROM DASA LORD
The position of the Antardasa lord from the Dasa lord is
important for determining the smoothness or otherwise of the
Antardasa.
2/12 Positions of Dasa Lord and Antardasa Lord
The Dasa and Antardasa lords in the 2nd and 12th from each other
indicates a period of some limitations, restrictions, disappointments
and inertia. Planets in 2/12 positions do not allow for their energies
to combine and flow in a powerfully creative way. This will generally
manifest as limitations, delays, disappointments, etc. These periods,
though frustrating, may result in inspiring the native to make the
most of something important to them by causing them to realize how
important certain aspects of life are to them. It is only through
restriction and limitation of some type that we recognize the value of
freedom.
When the Antardasa lord is in the 2nd from the Dasa lord, the
native will be able to move forward in life in respect to the
indications of the Dasa lord, but he will usually do so at a slower,
more restricted pace than he desires. The Antardasa lord will
constrict things somewhat. The Antardasa lord placed in the 2nd may
also indicate something that the native gains the possession of that is
either stabilizing or limiting.
When the Antardasa lord is in the 12th from the Dasa lord it is
generally a more adverse period that gives greater loss and
disappointment in respect to the indications of the Dasa and
Antardasa lord. These periods, though, may help in letting go of any
restricting inner (psychological) and outer frameworks.
The tendencies and indications of planets in 2/12 from each other
are tendencies that the native is unable to focus together in a creative,
goal-orientated manner. The planet that is stronger in Shad Bala will

Vimshottari Dasa

241

be the planet, and therefore the tendency, that the native will
primarily rely on and favor; and the planet that will give the majority
of results.
6/8 Positions of Dasa Lord and Antardasa Lord
“During the Dasa and Antardasa of planets which occupy the 6th and 8th place
from each other the native suffers loss of place or loss of life.” -Jataka Parijata 16, 54
When the Dasa and Antardasa lords are in the 6th and 8th place
from each other it indicates a period of crisis, radical change, conflict,
and/or obstacles. The tendencies represented by planets in 6/8 from
each other are tendencies that create conflict within the native. The
period of planets in 6/8 from each other bring events that the native
is unable to simultaneously enjoy and maintain due to some internal
conflict. The planet with the highest Shad Bala strength will indicated
the tendency that the native will carry through during this period of
crisis. These periods always require that the native resolve this
internal conflict in order to have peace. These periods also always
result in some major changes in the areas of life indicated by the
planets and houses affected.
DASA EFFECTS DUE TO FRIENDSHIP AND ENMITY
“The native will face danger from enemies, suffer loss of position and earn hostility of
persons who had been his friends during the Dasa of a planet and the Antardasa of
the planet who is inimical to the lord of the Dasa, or is inimical to the lord of the
Lagna.”
-Phaladeepika 20, 28
In the event that the Dasa and Antardasa lords are friends:
1. The Antardasa lord will support and assist the Dasa lord in its
endeavors.
2. The tendencies, desires and events represented by the Antardasa
lord will harmonize with those represented by the Dasa lord.
3. Both of the above contribute to a generally more harmonious
period.

242

Vault of the Heavens

In the event that the Dasa and Antardasa lords are enemies:
1. The Antardasa lord will usurp the endeavors of the Dasa lord.
2. The tendencies, desires and events represented by the Antardasa
lord will conflict with those represented by the Dasa lord.
3. Both of the above contribute to a generally less harmonious
period with greater difficulties as well as internal conflict.
4. In this event, the planet that is highest in Shad Bala will be the
planet, the indications and tendencies of which, the native will
favor at the expense of those indicated by the weaker planet.
In the event that the Antardasa lord is an enemy of the Lagna lord:
1. Difficulties, specific to the Antardasa lord, will prevail that hinder
the native from realizing and/or manifesting the purpose or
focus of their life. This may include physical troubles.
EFFECTS OF SPECIFIC CONJUNCTIONS AND ASPECTS
When certain planets influence each other, one of the planets
becomes more capable of granting success and prosperity while the
other becomes capable of only mediocre results, or in some cases
inauspicious results. One of the planets transfers whatever ability it
has to produce auspicious effects upon the other, which then
becomes capable of greater success. These combinations are very
important for judging periods of success accurately.
Planets
1. If the Sun and Mercury join, Mercury’s dasa yields highly
favorable results, but the Sun’s dasa will be ordinary.
2. If the Sun and others join (except Mercury), the Sun’s dasa
confers fame and wealth, and the others’ dasa are ordinary.
3. If the Moon and Mars join or aspect each other, the Moon’s dasa
yields fortunate results, but Mars’ dasa will be ordinary.
4. If Jupiter and the Moon join, the Moon’s dasa proves very
prosperous, but Jupiter’s dasa will be ordinary.
5. If Jupiter and Mars join or aspect each other, Mars’ dasa will be
very fortunate, but Jupiter’s dasa will be ordinary.

Vimshottari Dasa

243

6. If Jupiter and Saturn join or aspect each other, Saturn’s dasa will
prove very fortunate, but Jupiter’s dasa will be ordinary.
7. If Venus is joined or aspected by Mercury or Jupiter, the native
will gain wealth in the dasa of Venus, though they become bereft
of wealth in the dasa of Jupiter, and mixed results occur in the
dasa of Mercury.
House Lords
1. If the 10th and 11th lords join or aspect each other, Raja Yoga will
be caused in the dasa of the 11th lord; auspicious and inauspicious
results will be equal during the dasa of the 10th lord.
2. If the 10th and 3rd lords join or aspect each other, the native will
be deprived of fortune in the dasa of the 10th lord, but will enjoy
fortunate results in the dasa of the 3rd lord.
3. If the 8th lord and 9th lord join or aspect each other, fame and
power will be conferred in the dasa of the 8th lord. Also, fame
and power will be conferred not in the dasa of the 9th lord, but in
the antardasa of the 8th lord (in any other dasa).
SPECIFIC DASA AND ANTARDASA LORDS
There are particular periods in life that are potentially very
difficult and disastrous. People suffering great difficulty and
confusion will be running certain particular periods. These potentially
difficult periods are discussed below:
Saturn/Rahu and Rahu/Saturn Periods
“Disputes with wife, sons and brothers, loss of position, destruction of servants, injury
to the body and suffering from diseases due to the excess of wind and bile will be the
likely effects for the native in the Antardasa of Saturn in the Dasa of Rahu.”
-Phaladeepika 21, 32

“Deviating from the path of righteousness, loss of life or danger from diabetes,
enlargement of spleen and a continuous fever or wound will be the main inauspicious
effects in the Antardasa of Rahu in the Dasa of Saturn.” -Phaladeepika 21, 55

244

Vault of the Heavens

Saturn and Rahu are the two most tamasic and misery producing
planets. Their mutual periods will almost always be marked by
struggles, discontent, inertia, and negative feelings. When these two
planets are placed in such a manner as to give good results and rise in
life, they will do so, but the native will still generally be confronted by
difficulties, miseries, and negativity. These periods may be particularly
adverse for health if there are any indications for disease; cancer is
especially noted in these periods.
Venus/Rahu and Rahu/Venus Periods
The mutual periods of Venus and Rahu are always very important
and must therefore be judged very carefully. The forces generated by
these periods are so powerful that many life-changing events will
almost always manifest that may make or break a person.
The two planets, Rahu and Venus, relate directly to desire and
passion. Venus to conscious desires and wants and Rahu to powerful
compulsive desires and drives. During the Dasa of Rahu in the
Antardasa of Venus the powerful compulsive drives of Rahu have a
much greater outlet through the conscious desire nature of Venus,
than during any other Antardasa. If the planets are well situated this
energy can manifest positively, but if these planets are ill disposed the
results can be disastrous.
During the Dasa of Venus in the Antardasa of Rahu that which
was consciously thought desired gets confused and distorted. This
may prompt the native to make serious changes in respect to what it
is that he really wants, or take one off track entirely.
During these periods the results of the proper use or the misuse
of the native’s desire energies will manifest to a very powerful degree.
These periods always afford some opportunity for the native to
understand what he really wants and values in life.
One of the unique things about these periods is that very
important things can happen very unexpectedly, in fact, the most
unexpected happens during these periods. Relationships, marriage,
etc., generally undergo huge change and transitions during these

Vimshottari Dasa

245

periods. It is not often that people find happiness in their
relationships during these periods.
Jupiter/Venus and Venus/Jupiter Periods
The Mutual periods of Venus and Jupiter are important both from
a prediction as well as a developmental viewpoint. These two planets
are the planetary Brahmins. Venus is the preceptor of the Asuras, and
Jupiter is the preceptor of the Devas. As they are both preceptors
their mutual periods give always an increase in knowledge and
spiritual development. As the two great benefics their mutual periods
may prove beneficial materially. See what the classical texts have to
say:
“Jupiter and Venus in their mutual dasa and bukti bestow kingship or the position of
a minister, and much wealth and happiness through wife and children. The native will
devote his energies in the performance of sacrifices, birth of children, marriage
celebrations and other similar auspicious functions provided these two planets are
strong and occupy good houses and are also associated with and aspected by
auspicious planets.”
Remember the myth of Vamana Avatar? Vamana is the avatar
that is associated with Jupiter. In this story it was Venus who
suggested to Bali that he not keep his promise to Vamana (associated
with Jupiter). The two were at odds; the result was the entire loss of
Bali’s kingdom, but great spiritual growth. So it is with Venus and
Jupiter in their mutual periods if they are at odds. See what the
classical texts have to say about this:
“If Jupiter and Venus are in 6/8 or 2/12 to each other, if they are aspected or
associated with the lords of the 6th, 8th or 12th houses, if they are the owners of these
houses, if they are aspected by or in association with malefics, or if they are weak in
house position, etc.; then they will, during their mutual periods cause separation from
wife and sons, displeasure of a high Brahmin chief, trouble through intrigues with
females, royal displeasure and fear of epileptic attack.”

246

Vault of the Heavens

If Jupiter and Venus are afflicted at all, then their mutual periods
may cause great loss, even the loss of loved ones, but this loss can
help to transform one's life. Regardless of whether the mutual
periods of Jupiter and Venus give pleasurable or difficult events, they
always have a lot to teach, even more so if they provide this through
ill events.
Saturn/Venus and Venus/Saturn Periods
The mutual periods of Venus and Saturn are very difficult periods
to predict, with many unusual guidelines for doing so. The general
theme of these periods is one of lack of fulfillment, unhappiness and
lack of love. There are great restrictions put upon one’s desires and
those things one desires remain out of reach. It is generally a trying
time for marriage and romance and one is not likely to find
fulfillment in those areas in these periods. In interpreting these
periods the following classical guidelines should be carefully
considered:
“Saturn’s bukti in Venus’s dasa, enhances the results of Venus, and vice versa; the
bukti lord enacts like the dasa lord.”
This is a most important point in analyzing these periods.
Venus/Saturn gives the full results of the Venus; so see what Venus
is indicating, that will happen particularly during Venus/Saturn.
Saturn/Venus gives the full results of Saturn; so see what Saturn is
indicating, that will happen particularly during Saturn/Venus.
“If Venus and Saturn occupy their exaltation, own rasi, or vargottama and are
strong and equally powerful to cause yoga, then they will, in their mutual dasas and
buktis, make one a beggar seeking alms and a powerless being, even though he be
born a king or a Kubera. If, however, one of the two be strong and the other weak,
the stronger one will cause Yoga (giving rise and success).”
“If both are weak and are placed so that one occupies the 12th, the 8th or the 6th
from the other, or happens to own such places, or be associated with the lords of

Vimshottari Dasa

247

these houses, they tend to be auspicious and grant wealth and happiness to the man
concerned. When one of them is the lord of an auspicious house and the other of an
unfavorable one, even then, both of them will produce good results. Should they both
be temporal malefics they will prove extremely favorable to the native.”
Though these last two principles have some influence, what is
most important in analyzing these periods is the first rule already
given above: Saturn/Venus gives the full effects of Saturn and
Venus/Saturn gives the full effects of Venus.
“One becomes unfortunate during Saturn dasa Venus bukti, or Venus dasa Saturn
bukti. For persons born in Sagittarius and Pisces lagna, Venus and Saturn give rise
to yoga (giving rise in life) in the dasa of Saturn and Venus respectively (meaning
Venus Bukti in Saturn Dasa, and Saturn Bukti in Venus Dasa).”
Though these periods may be more promising for Sagittarius and
Pisces lagnas, what actually happens is dependent upon the first rule
already given.
Venus/Venus and Saturn/Saturn Periods
“Venus/Venus gives the effects of Venus/Saturn, and Saturn/Saturn gives the effects
of Saturn/Venus.”
This is the one consistent time that the beginning of a Dasa will
always move things along quickly, without the normal transition time.
See what Venus/Saturn is indicating, this will happen in
Venus/Venus. See what Saturn/Venus is indicating, this will happen
in Saturn/Saturn.
Rahu/Ketu and Ketu/Rahu Periods
“Brigandage, loss of wealth and honor, loss of children, death among cattle, and
misfortunes of all kinds await a person in Ketu’s Antardasa in the Dasa of Rahu.”
-Jataka Parijata 18, 101

248

Vault of the Heavens

“Fear of kings and robbers, sorrow, ruin of every business, and altercation with bad
people will be experienced in Rahu’s Antardasa in the Dasa of Ketu.”
-Jataka Parijata 18, 151

During the Dasa of Rahu the native is learning the evolutionary
lessons in the areas that they are karmatically weak in and in need of
developing, as indicted by Rahu’s placement. In the Antardasa of
Ketu, setbacks to Rahu’s indications generally manifest due to one or
both of the following: The native would rather, and feels more
comfortable, with falling back upon the indications of Ketu.
Obstacles come, which are the residue of past karma and lessons,
which the individual must settle before progressing in the areas
indicated by Rahu.
During the Dasa of Ketu the native is enjoying or suffering
powerful residual karmas in areas of past development and security,
as indicated by Ketu’s placement. During the Antardasa of Rahu,
desires awaken that prompt the native to move towards the
karmatically weak evolutionary goal indicated by Rahu. The
attachments to and necessary completion of Ketu’s indications,
however, prevents the full fruition of these goals at this time. This
has the effect of creating great discontent and longings; the past areas
of fulfillment, indicated by Ketu, are no longer found to be fulfilling,
and the desired for, indicated by Rahu, is not fully available.
Both of these periods have the effect of instilling an element of
confusion in the native about where to focus their energies, and
where their life is heading. The lord of the house, which is stronger in
Shad Bala, will generally indicate the area, which, through the
confusion, the native will place more emphasis upon.
Note: All the judgment guidelines given above will hold true in the
Maha, Antar, Pratyantar, Sookshma and Prana Dasas.

Subha, Asubha, and Misra Yogas

249

21
Subha, Asubha, and Misra Yogas
Any planet can give good or ill in any house that it may be placed
in. The influences upon a planet indicate whether the planet has
more ill effects or more good effects to give. The house itself
indicates through what agency and what manner the effects of the
planets are realized. Three yogas from Satya Jatakam help us to judge
the greater benefic or malefic influences upon a planet:
SUBHA -auspicious- YOGA
Indicates good effects of the planet in relation to the house it is in.
Formed when the planet is:
1. Aspected by benefics.
2. With benefics. (If the benefic is debilitated, however, it will be
harmful to the outcome of the planet under consideration).
3. Hemmed between benefics.
4. With auspicious Tara: the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, or 9th nakshatras
from the Janma Nakshatra. The Moon is not considered for this.
5. In the rasi or navamsa of a benefic. (If a planet is in the rasi or
navamsa of a benefic, which is its debilitation rasi, then this does
not qualify as a helpful rasi or navamsa. Though a benefic rasi, it
will still decrease good results).
ASUBHA -inauspicious- YOGA
Indicates ill effects of the planet in relation to the house it is in.
Formed when the planet is:
1. Aspected by malefics.
2. With malefics. (If the malefic is in own rasi or vargottama, it will
not be harmful to the eventual outcome. If the malefic is in
moolatrikona or exaltation, it will actually be helpful to the
eventual outcome).
3. Hemmed between malefics.

250

Vault of the Heavens

4. With inauspicious Tara: the 3rd, 5th, or 7th nakshatras from the
Janma Nakshatra. The Moon is not considered for this.
5. In the rasi or navamsa of a malefic. (If a planet is in the rasi or
navamsa of a malefic that happens to be its own, or exaltation,
rasi, or navamsa, or if the planet is in vargottama, then this does
not qualify as a harmful rasi. As a malefic rasi, it will give
hardship, but it will not prevent good results. In fact, it will
actually increase the possibility of good results as the final
outcome, particularly in the case of exaltation or moolatrikona).
MISRA -mixed- YOGA
Formed by a combination of Subha and Asubha Yogas. Indicates
a mix of good and ill effects. Most planets will fall under this yoga,
thus it becomes important to judge whether a planet has more
auspicious or inauspicious influences upon it to determine whether
the native will experience more or less happiness in regards to that
planet’s indications.
1. In all cases of these yogas the natural benefic or malefic natures
of the planets are considered, not the temporal nature. The Moon
a benefic when its paksha bala is 40 or greater (when 120-240
degrees from the Sun), and a malefic when its pakshabala is 20 or
less (when 300-60 degrees from the Sun). Otherwise the Moon
should be considered as neutral since it will not be benefic or
malefic enough to have much effect.
2. The consideration of the Tara is as significant as a conjunction of
a benefic or malefic.
3. The consideration of the rasi or navamsa is approximately half as
significant as a benefic or malefic conjunction.
4. The consideration of a planet being hemmed between benefics or
malefics is as significant as a benefic or malefic conjunction.
5. If the planet is joined with the 6th, 8th or 12th lord in the 6th, 8th or
12th house, it will be harmed, unless the planet is also the lord of
a dusthana.
6. These yogas are considered with planetary aspects.

Subha, Asubha, and Misra Yogas

251

Generally a planet will be causing a Misra Yoga that is either a bit
more auspicious or a bit more inauspicious. In this case, a clear
analysis of the Dasa influence is important in order to determine
when the good effects of the planet are to be realized and when the
ill effects are to be realized. The dasa periods of the Subha influences
will bring more good effects, and the dasa periods of the Asubha
influences will bring more ill effects.
The planets that are strongly under the influence of a Subha, or
Asubha Yoga indicate the more extreme aspects of the native’s life.
These will have to be considered to determine the greater joys and
tragedies of the native.
The dusthanas (6th, 8th and 12th houses) are no doubt troublesome
houses, but planets in these houses can give good effects if they have
primarily beneficial influences upon them. Planets in these houses
that have primary malefic influences upon them indicate a lot of grief
and tragedy.
The following table will help you mathematically determine the
quality of the Subha or Asubha Yoga:
Subha/Asubha Yoga
Benefic/Malefic Rasi, ± 30:
Dignity in Rasi: *
Benefic/Malefic Navamsa, ± 30
Dignity in Navamsa: *
Vargottama: + 60
Tara, ± 60:
Benefic Conjunctions: **
Malefic Conjunctions: **
Benefic Aspect, + Virupas:
Malefic Aspect, – Virupas:
Hemmed by Benefics, +60:
Hemmed by Malefics, –60:

Total

$ % & ' ( ) * + ,

N/A

252

Vault of the Heavens

* The dignity should be considered when judging whether a planet is
in the rasi or navamsa of a benefic or malefic. Add 30 if the planet is
in the rasi of a benefic; subtract 30 if a planet is in the rasi of a
malefic. Additionally modify this by the dignity: If the planet is in
exaltation add 60, if in moolatrikona add 45, if in own rasi add 30,
and if in debilitation subtract 60.
**The dignity, as well as whether it is vargottama, of the conjuncting
planet should be considered when judging the benefic or malefic
effect of a planet’s conjunctions:
1. 30 points are added if the conjuncting planet is a malefic in
exaltation.
2. 15 points are added if the conjuncting planet is a malefic in
moolatrikona.
3. No points are added or subtracted if the conjuncting planet is a
malefic in its own rasi, or in vargottama.
4. 60 points are subtracted it the conjuncting planet is a malefic and
not in the mentioned dignities.
5. 60 points are added if the conjuncting planet is a benefic and not
in debilitation.
6. No points are added or subtracted if the conjuncting planet is a
benefic in debilitation.
This mathematical method I have created for my students; though
not adopted from classical texts it has proven as a simple reliable
indicator of a planet’s well being.
SUBHA/ASUBHA YOGAS FOR QUALIFYING YOGAS
Subha and Asubha Yogas are particularly helpful in judging the
well being of a planet in a house, a planet that is causing some yoga,
etc. After determining the effects of any yoga, etc. that a planet is
causing, consider the Subha/Asubha Yoga in order to determine the
quality of the yoga, etc.

House Lords in Houses

253

22
House Lords in Houses
A house lord is responsible for the indications of the house it
rules. The lord of a house will give more benefic or more malefic
effects, in respect to the house it is placed in, dependent upon
whether it forms a Subha or Asubha Yoga.
INDICATIONS OF HOUSE LORDS
Following are the more important indications of a house lord, and
the results in the event that it forms a Subha or Asubha Yoga:
Lagna Lord
Energy put forth in order to find one’s niche in life in the area
represented by the house placement. In the event of Subha Yoga
there will be personal success and happiness in the areas ruled by the
house. In the event of Asubha Yoga there will be frustration,
suffering and the ill effects of the house in which the lagna lord is
placed. The lagna lord also governs the health. The health will be
strong in the event of Subha Yoga, if Asubha Yoga is caused the
body will be drained or damaged due to the indications of the house
the lagna lord is placed in.
2nd Lord
Capacity to generate and maintain resources, and use them
productively through the house placement. Wealth and efficient
management of resources as indicated by the house placement if
Subha Yoga is present. Misallocation of wealth, loss, and debts on
account of or through, the house placement, if Asubha Yoga is
caused.

254

Vault of the Heavens

3rd Lord
Initiative, interest, skills, talents and willfulness directed towards
the house indications wherein the 3rd lord is placed. Courage,
fairness, negotiating capacity, open mindedness, and objectivity if the
planet is causing Subha Yoga. Frigidity, self-centeredness,
subjectivity, and narrow mindedness if Asubha Yoga is present.
4th lord
Securing of comforts and happiness through the indications of the
house in which the 4th lord is placed. Happiness and contentment
with the indications of the house the 4th lord is in if a Subha Yoga.
Distress, depression, mental anxiety, longings and melancholy with
the indications of the house the 4th lord is in if Asubha Yoga is
present.
5th lord
Creativity, learning, and discrimination focused towards the
indications of the house wherein the 5th lord is placed. Joy, luck,
spontaneous and harmonious success with the indications of the
house the 5th lord is in, in the event of Subha Yoga. Fantasy,
imagination, unrequited longing, and lack of mental harmony in the
areas indicated by the house the 5th lord is in, in the event of Asubha
Yoga.
6th lord
Struggle, hard work, debts, illness, enmity, and obstacles in respect
to the house wherein the 6th lord is placed. Overcoming obstacles,
debt on good account, recuperative ability, working towards peace or
destroying enemies, and work paying off in the event of Subha Yoga.
Debts on bad account, loss to enemies, overwhelmed by obstacles,
and disease, in the event of Asubha Yoga.
7th Lord
Desire for sharing and partnership with the indications of the
house wherein the 7th lord is placed. Giving, goodwill and balance

House Lords in Houses

255

with another in the event of Subha Yoga. Lack of harmony, and
imbalances of give and take in relationships in the event of Asubha
Yoga.
8th Lord
Breaks, unexpected and sudden events, transformations and
developing emotional integrity in the areas indicated by the house
wherein the 8th lord is placed. Breaks, etc. lead to higher levels of
fulfillment, increased success, and emotional strength in the event of
Subha Yoga. Compulsive feelings dictate events, breaks, downfall,
and emotional crisis with the indications of the house that the 8th lord
is in if Asubha Yoga is present.
9th Lord
Seeking of fortune, and finding meaning and purpose in life
through the indications of the house wherein the 9th lord is placed.
Wisdom and virtue in handling the indications of the house the 9th
lord is in with resultant fortune and grace, in the event of Subha
Yoga. Lack of understanding, impiety, and lack of fortune and grace
in the event of Asubha Yoga.
10th Lord
Activities to achieve professional success, status, and material well
being influenced by the indications of the house the 10th lord is in.
Good deeds, status, promotion, and command, in the event of Subha
Yoga. Improper actions, loss of status, and setbacks in career if
Asubha Yoga is present.
11th Lord
Efforts to gain and acquire of, or through, the indications of the
house wherein the 11th lord is placed. Fair means to achieve success
and gain of the indications of the house the 11th lord is in if Subha
Yoga is present. Questionable, or ruthless, self-centered means to
achieve success and setbacks, frustrations, and ruination of the
desired object if Asubha Yoga is present.

256

Vault of the Heavens

12th Lord
Expense on account of, or loss of, the indications of the house
wherein the 12th lord is placed. Expense is on good account, a longterm investment, and one suffers loss with an attitude of surrender, in
the event of Subha Yoga. Expense on bad account, vice, etc, with
anxiety and turmoil if Asubha Yoga is present.

Judging the Horoscope

257

23
Judging the Horoscope
Judging the interweaving of the various basic astrological
principles is what gives life to the horoscope, allowing the astrologer
to make predictions. There are certain basic predictive principles that
apply to all areas of life; using them will provide reasonable accuracy
in determining events in the life of the native. Additionally, for each
area of life there are specific principles and yogas that apply only to
that area of life, learning these as well will provide the highest
accuracy in prediction. In this chapter we will discuss the basic
predictive principles that will quickly provide a foundation for
judging the horoscope.
When judging any area of life four things must be considered:
1. The House.
2. The House Lord.
3. The Karaka: the planet who produces the item under
consideration.
4. The Appropriate House from the Karaka. For instance, if
children are being considered, the Karaka is Jupiter; therefore the
5th house from Jupiter must also be considered, since the 5th
house is the house of children.
The Karaka is the planet that is the causer/producer of the item
under consideration, the house gives birth to the item, and the house
lord is the item under consideration in its activities:
1. If the Karaka and the appropriate house from the Karaka are
heavily afflicted, it is not likely that the item under consideration
will be a part of life, in this case the karaka will not be able to
produce what it is the karaka for. On the other hand, if the

258

Vault of the Heavens

Karaka and the appropriate house are well disposed, the item
under consideration will be produced in the native’s life.
2. If the house is afflicted, there will be difficulties in bringing the
item into concrete manifestation and inherent weaknesses in the
item under consideration. These inherent weaknesses will come
to the surface in the appropriate dasas. If the house is well
disposed it will be easy to bring the item under consideration into
concrete realization and the item will be inherently strong.
3. If the lord is afflicted, the item will be involved in activities, and
have pressures put upon it that are not conducive to its wellbeing or longevity. If the lord is well disposed the item under
consideration will be involved in activities that are productive to
its well-being, growth and longevity.
KARAKAS
In judging any area of life it is the karaka that is the most important. If the
karaka and the appropriate house from it have only malefic
influences upon them it is not likely that the native will enjoy the area
of life under consideration. Following are the most important karakas
for the several houses:
1st House
The Sun- the body, its health and appearance. Self and
personality.
2nd House
Jupiter- wealth. Mercury- Speech. Moon- the face.
3rd House
Mars- younger siblings, courage. Mercury- travels.
Venus- father of spouse.
4th House
The Moon- mother. Venus- vehicles. Saturn- landed property.
Mars- buildings.

Judging the Horoscope

259

5th House
Jupiter- children, knowledge, education, spiritual practices.
Mercury- speculations. Rahu- paternal grandfather.
6th House
Saturn- disease. Mars- accidents, enemies.
Mercury- Maternal aunts and uncles.
7th House
Venus- wife, marriage, and romantic relationships in general.
Jupiter- husband. Mercury- Business Partners. Rahu- Maternal
grandmother.
8th House
Saturn- longevity, chronic disease.
9th House
The Sun- father. Jupiter- guru, philosophy, spiritual life, law,
and fortune.
10th House
The Sun- professional status. Mercury- business.
Venus- mother of spouse.
11th House
Jupiter- income, financial gains, elder siblings. Saturn- elder
siblings according to some.
12th House
Saturn- loss, expense, and separation. Rahu- foreign articles, and
foreign journeys. Ketu- liberation. Ketu- maternal grandfather.
Ketu- paternal grandmother.

260

Vault of the Heavens

PREDICTING QUALITY
First the astrologer must determine the extent to which one will
enjoy any area of life. To do this check:
1. The Karaka
1. Consider any conjunctions or rasi aspects of natural benefics
or malefics to the karaka in the rasi chart.
2. Consider any conjunctions or rasi aspects of natural benefics
or malefics to the karaka in the navamsa chart.
3. Consider the house wherein the karaka is placed, and whether
there is a Subha, Asubha, or Misra Yoga.
If there are only malefic influences to the karaka, without at least one
benefic rasi aspect, or conjunction, the karaka will not be capable of
producing those things it is a karaka for, the result being the native
will not enjoy that are of life.
2. The Appropriate House from the Karaka
1. Consider any conjunctions or rasi aspects of any planets,
whether naturally benefic or malefic, to the house ruling the
area of life under consideration from the Karaka.
2. Consider whether the house is hemmed between benefics or
malefics.
3. Consider any conjunctions or rasi aspects of natural benefics
or malefics to the lord of this house in the rasi chart. Then
consider the house wherein the lord of this house is placed,
and whether there is a Subha, Asubha, or Misra Yoga.
4. Consider any conjunctions or rasi aspects of any planets,
whether naturally benefic or malefic, to the house from the
Karaka, in the navamsa chart. Then consider any
conjunctions or rasi aspects of any planets, whether naturally
benefic or malefic, to the lord of this house.
5. Consider the value of planetary aspects of any planets,
whether naturally benefic or malefic, to the house ruling the
area of life under consideration from the Karaka. The cusp of

Judging the Horoscope

261

the house in this case is the same as the degree of the Karaka
planet.
If there are only malefic influences to this house, without at least one
benefic rasi aspect, or conjunction, the karaka will not be capable of
producing that which it is a karaka for relative to this house, the
result being the native will not enjoy that area of life at all.
3. The House
1. Consider the conjunctions or rasi aspects of any planets,
whether naturally benefic or malefic, to the house ruling the
area of life under consideration.
2. Consider whether the house is hemmed between benefics or
malefics.
3. Consider the value of planetary aspects of any planets,
whether naturally benefic or malefic, to the house ruling the
area of life under consideration.
4. Consider the rasi on the cusp of the house in question,
whether benefic or malefic. This will have a very minor
influence on the extent the native will enjoy the area of life
under question.
If the house is afflicted there will be difficulty in bringing the item
under consideration into concrete realization. Any afflictions results
in inherent weakness, any benefic influences result in inherent
strengths.
4. The House Lord
1. Consider any conjunctions or rasi aspects of natural benefics
or malefics to the house lord in the rasi chart.
2. Consider the house wherein the house lord is placed and
whether there is a Subha, Asubha, or Misra Yoga.
The better situated the house lord, the better the life and/or activities
of the item under consideration.

262

Vault of the Heavens

The greater the auspicious factors the more the native will enjoy
the area under consideration. If there are only malefic influences to
the factors governing the area in question then it is not likely that the
native will enjoy the area under consideration at all.
Rasi aspects and conjunctions have greater significance than do
the planetary aspects for determining what a native will have in life,
and whether or not they will have something particular. Without at
least one helpful rasi aspect or conjunction, bringing the area of life
under consideration into concrete manifestation will be hampered
regardless of any planetary aspects. The planetary aspects and
Subha/Asubha Yoga influences are more useful for determining the
benefits, difficulties, happiness, etc. of the item under consideration.
In all cases of rasi aspects and conjunctions: A planet in
debilitation is harmful. In vargottama, or own rasi, a malefic is not
harmful. In exaltation or moolatrikona, even a malefic planet is
helpful for giving something, though a malefic always has associated
difficulties. Rahu is helpful in Aquarius, and Ketu is helpful in
Scorpio, though they are never easy.
In the chapter, “Dignities,” are given the percentage of auspicious
results due to a planet in exaltation, debilitation, friend’s rasi, etc.
These can be used advantageously to gauge the benefic effect of the
conjunction or rasi aspect of a benefic, and the malefic effect of the
conjunction or rasi aspect of a malefic.
DELAYING FACTORS
Saturn, Rahu and the 6th lord are delaying factors; their
conjunction or aspect indicates delays in fulfilling that which they
influence. Even if Saturn and Rahu are in good dignity, thereby
indicating success to those things they are influencing, then success
will come later in life. Also, if there are a mix of benefic influences
and delaying factors, then results will be delayed as well.
SEPARATING FACTORS
The Sun, Saturn, Rahu and the lord of the 12th house are
separating factors. The serve to separate the native from those things

Judging the Horoscope

263

they influence. If only separating factors influence the house, the
house lord and the karaka, then the separation is permanent. If three,
of the four, separating factors influence one planet or house, then
also the separation is generally permanent.
The dignities of Saturn and Rahu determine whether they behave
more as separating factors or delaying factors. The worse the dignity
the greater separating factors they become. If Saturn is in its own or
exaltation rasi, or if Rahu is in Aquarius or Taurus, then they behave
more as delaying factors, in other rasis they act more as separating
factors. However, Saturn in a great friend’s or friend’s rasi, and Rahu
in the rasis of Mercury, are not entirely separating factors, they give
separation, but have some eventual good to give.
Similarly, if the 12th lord is in own or exaltation, it will help
provide those things it influences, but through 12th house means,
such as expensively, through foreign sources, secretively, etc., in
other dignities, especially in inimical or debilitation rasi, it is more
inclined to cause separation, though in a friends or great friends rasi it
will not be a source of lifelong separation.
The worse the dignity of the Sun, the greater his separating
influences.
INFLUENCE OF THE KARAKA
It is always productive for the karaka of a house to join or aspect
the house lord, even if the karaka is a natural malefic. It is only nonproductive if the karaka is debilitated.
If the karaka for a house is in the house itself, it is not auspicious
for living things, though it is productive for non-living things.
Therefore, Mars, the karaka for siblings, in the 3rd house is harmful
for younger siblings, but productive of courage, which it is also a
karaka for. Jupiter, the karaka for children, is harmful for children
when in the 5th house, but productive of intelligence, which it is also
a karaka for. Venus the karaka for the spouse is harmful to the
spouse when it is in the 7th, but productive of sexual relationships.
The Moon is harmful for the mother when placed in the 4th house
and the Sun is harmful for the father when placed in the 9th house.

264

Vault of the Heavens

The Sun is also harmful to the native when placed in the lagna, since
it is the karaka for the native’s body and physical well-being.
FATAL DEGREES
In each rasi there are particular degrees where the planets become
weak. These are known as Mrityubhaga, or Fatal Degrees. A planet in
a Fatal Degree is particularly harmful to the health of the native as
well as to the health of the people it rules or influences in the
horoscope. Besides having an adverse influence on physical wellbeing, planets in Fatal Degrees are weak to bring about their
auspicious results and it is a serious blemish for a planet to fall in a
Fatal Degree. The adverse influence of a planet in a Fatal Degree
should be considered as least as significant as a malefic conjunction.
The Moon also has an Auspicious Degree. In this degree the
Moon is more fortunate and protective of the native’s well-being.
Fatal Degrees of the Planets
D E F G H IJ K L M N O
Ar Ta Ge Ca Le Vi Li Sc Sa Ca Aq Pi
$-Su 20 9 12 6 8 24 16 17 22 2 3 23
%-Mo 26 12 13 25 24 11 26 14 13 25 5 12
&-Ma 19 28 25 23 29 28 14 21 2 15 11 6
'-Me 15 14 13 12 8 18 20 10 21 22 7 5
(-Me 19 29 12 27 6 4 13 10 17 11 15 28
)-Ve 28 15 11 17 10 13 4 6 27 12 29 19
*-Sa 10 4 7 9 12 16 3 18 28 14 13 15
+- Ra 14 13 12 11 24 23 22 21 10 20 18 8
8 18 20 10 21 22 23 24 11 12 13 14
,-Ke
Lagna 8 9 22 22 25 14 4 23 18 20 21 10
Gulika 23 24 11 12 13 14 8 18 20 10 21 22
Auspicious Degrees of the Moon
D E F G H IJ K L M N O
%-Mo 21 14 18 8 19 9 24 11 23 14 19 9

Judging the Horoscope

265

INFLUENCE OF HOUSES AND HOUSE LORDS
In order to gain a clearer analysis of the area of life, and the
circumstances surrounding it, consider the influencing houses and
house lords:
1. Consider the house wherein the house lord and karaka for the
item under consideration are placed.
2. Consider the house lords that join, or aspect (with either
planetary or rasi aspect), the house under consideration, its lord
and the karaka.
House Placement
1. If the house lord or karaka is in a trine the area of life is generally
more fortuitous and manifests easily and fortunately.
2. If the house lord or karaka is in an angle the area of life is
generally more significant in the life of the native, and generally
manifests earlier rather than later.
3. If the house lord or karaka is in the 3rd or 11th, the area of life is a
greater desire, and one that usually requires greater effort to
realize, manage or maintain. It is a greater desire when it is in the
11th than the 3rd. The desire is based upon hope and fulfillment if
the planet is in the 11th, and upon one’s ideas for what is good, or
right to have, if it is in the 3rd. More effort is required when the
house lord or karaka is in the 3rd than the 11th. Planets in the 11th
house may also be a potential source of gain for the native.
4. If the house lord or the karaka is a dusthana, (6th, 8th or 12th
house) there will be greater struggles in realizing the area of life
under consideration and/or more difficulty or struggles in
maintaining it. These are in accordance with the nature of the
dusthana under question. Effort, struggles, obstacles, enemies,
and debt may influence the situation if the planet is in the 6th
house. Crisis, breaking of taboos or laws, or the unexpected may
influence the situation if the planet is in the 8th. Expense and
losses may influence the situation if the planet is in the 12th. The
worst-case situation is a planet in a dusthana under heavy malefic
influence; in this case its indications will suffer terribly.

266

Vault of the Heavens

House Lord Influence
1. If a trine lord, which is a natural benefic, influences the house,
the house lord or the karaka, the area of life under consideration
is furthered most easily.
2. If an angle lord, which is a natural benefic, influences the house,
the house lord or the karaka, the area of life under consideration
is pursued quite strongly, and furthered relatively easily.
3. If a trine lord, which is a natural malefic, influences the house,
the house lord or the karaka, the native’s involvement with those
things governed by the trine will serve to create difficulties to, or
separation from, the area of life under consideration. It will
usually, however, be in the native’s highest interest to follow the
dictates of the trine lord.
4. If an angular lord, which is a natural malefic, influences the
house, the house lord or the karaka, the native’s involvement
with those things governed by the angular lord will serve to create
difficulties, or separation, to the area of life under consideration.
These difficulties will be to the degree that the native is involved
with the indications of the angular lord.
5. If a dusthana lord, which is a natural benefic, influences the
house, the house lord or the karaka, the area of life under
consideration will manifest through the difficulties or struggles
indicated by the dusthana lord.
6. If a dusthana lord, which is a natural malefic, influences the
house, the house lord or the karaka, the area of life under
consideration will suffer greatly by way of the difficulties
indicated by the dusthana lord.
7. If the 3rd or 11th lord, which is a natural benefic, influences the
house, the house lord or the karaka, the native will have to exert
will and effort to manifest the area of life under consideration.
They will also have to find peace within themselves in order to
continue having happiness with the area of life under
consideration; otherwise the desire nature will desire the
excitement of something new, or their opinions will interfere with
the possible happiness they could receive.

Judging the Horoscope

267

8. If the 3rd or 11th lord, which is a natural malefic, influences the
house, the house lord or the karaka, the native’s own selfishness,
opinions, or willfulness may harm the area of life under
consideration.
9. Any house lord that is a natural malefic may indicate that the
person or item governed by the house lord may be a source of
difficulty to the realization of the area of life that it influences.
Thus a malefic 2nd lord may give difficulties coming from the
family; a malefic 3rd or 11th lord may give difficulties due to
younger or elder siblings respectively; similarly for other house
lords.
PREDICTING DETAILS
After determining that one will enjoy an area of life, carefully
considering the qualities of the planets, rasis, nakshatras and houses
will add color, specificity, and detail to a prediction. It is possible to
predict the length, color, size, nature, direction, etc of any item under
consideration. To predict the details of any item consider:
The House Lord and Karaka
1. Consider the qualities of the rasis wherein the house lord and
karaka are placed.
2. Consider the qualities of the navamsa rasis wherein the house
lord and karaka are placed.
3. Consider the qualities of any planets joining or aspecting (with
either planetary or rasi aspect) the house lord and karaka.
4. Consider the qualities of the nakshatra wherein the house lord
and karaka are placed.
The House, and the Appropriate House from the Karaka
1. Consider the qualities of the rasi of the house, and the house
from the karaka, ruling the item in question.
2. Consider the qualities of the navamsa of the cusps of these
houses. (The degree of the house cusp from the karaka is the
same degree as the karaka’s degree in its rasi).

268

Vault of the Heavens

3. Consider the qualities of any planets joining or aspecting (with
either planetary or rasi aspect) these houses.
4. Consider the qualities of the nakshatra on the house cusps.
The details of the item under consideration will be those indicated by
the above that are brought to fruition in accordance with the Dasa
and Antardasa influence. The Dasa influence is everything when
predicting details.
INDEPENDENT USE OF THE NAVAMSA
After skill has been developed with the foregoing techniques, the
independent use of the navamsa allows for finer detail. Consider the
above guidelines in the navamsa, reading the navamsa chart just like
the rasi chart. The one exception is that planetary aspects should not
be considered in the navamsa, only rasi aspects.
DUAL USE OF THE NAVAMSA AND RASI
A more advanced use of the navamsa is to consider the
appropriate house lord from the rasi chart in the navamsa, and to
consider the appropriate house lord from the navamsa in the rasi
chart. The rasi of the karaka in the rasi chart can be judged in the
navamsa, and the rasi of the karaka in the navamsa can be judged in
the rasi chart. In essence the rasi and navamsa are placed on top of
each other and read as one. Furthermore, the rasi on the house in the
rasi chart can also be judged in the navamsa, and the rasi on the
house in the navamsa chart can also be judged in the rasi. The house
and house lord from both the karaka and the lagna can be considered
in this manner. Reading the rasi and navamsa charts together in this
manner will very often explain something that wasn’t apparent at
first. However, it can also be overwhelming, so it is best, at first, to
use this technique when something is not quite explained through the
rules given above.

Judging the Horoscope

269

IMPORTANCE OF THE DASA INFLUENCE
The forgoing judgment guidelines reveal the static promise in the
horoscope; the entirety of what the native will or will not have in life,
as well as the potential of all the variances of an item one will have.
Because of this, there are an incredible amount of factors to consider,
which may initially be very overwhelming The dasa influence,
however, will reveal which influences are activated and thus exactly
what is being given at a particular period of the native’s life.
Therefore, pay particular attention to the dasa lord, the antardasa
lord, etc., and what they are influencing and indicating in the
horoscope. Skill in making predictions is dependent upon accurately
judging the ups and downs, the give and take that is indicated in the
horoscope in accordance with the ripening of the dasa lords.
IMPORTANCE OF DISPOSITORS
The benefic and malefic influences on the rasi, navamsa and
nakshatra dispositors of a house lord and karaka can be similarly
judged on all the points mentioned above in the event that the dasa
lord is the dispositor of a house lord or karaka under consideration.
This will provide greater accuracy in accordance with the dasa
influence.
Often times the dasa of the rasi, navamsa, or nakshatra dispositor
of a house lord or karaka will bring an item to fruition. In this case it
will be necessarily to judge the influences on this dispositor to
determine the quality and details of what is being given. For instance,
if the 4th lord is in Leo, indicating mountains, this would be an
indication for a home in the mountains. If the Sun is in Pisces, and
the Dasa of the Sun (the dispositor of the 4th lord) were to move the
native, the move would be to the ocean, indicated by Pisces. Further,
any afflictions to the Sun would be directed upon their new home.
CHANDRA LAGNA
In Vedic Astrology the horoscope is also read from the Moon’s
rasi, this is known as Chandra Lagna. Everything that has been stated
with reference to the lagna also applies to Chandra Lagna. Therefore,

270

Vault of the Heavens

when judging any area of life, both the appropriate house from the
lagna and the appropriate house from the Moon should be
considered.
Reading the horoscope from Chandra Lagna is also very
important when timing events with Vimshottari Dasa. For instance,
the 5th lord from the Moon can give children in its dasa as easily as
the 5th lord from the lagna. Reading the horoscope from Chandra
Lagna, as well as from the lagna, allows the astrologer to predict
many more events in a particular planets period then if just the lagna
were considered.
OTHER HOUSES AS LAGNAS
Another important consideration for reading the horoscope
accurately is to read the horoscope from the house in question. For
instance, when considering the mother, read the horoscope from the
4th house. If the 4th lord were in the 9th house, the 6th house of
disease from the 4th house, and under malefic influence, then the
mother’s health would be ailing. All the affairs of the native can be
read this way, however, it is particularly useful when reading about
other people in the native’s life.
This is also an important consideration when considering a planet
that rules two houses in the horoscope. Since the house lord is the
same for both the houses, it would be under the same influences,
however it would be in a different house from each of the houses it
rules, thereby giving somewhat different effects to each of the
houses. This is one important reason why two houses ruled by one
planet will have different effects. As an example, suppose, for Virgo
lagna, that Jupiter, the 4th and 7th lord, were in the 11th house, under
both benefic and malefic influences. From the 4th house, Jupiter is in
the destructive 8th, from the 7th house, Jupiter is in the lucky 5th,
therefore the 4th house indications would suffer more so then the 7th
house indications; the malefic influences to Jupiter would be
experienced more by the 4th house, and the benefic influences would
be experienced more by the 7th house. If, however, Jupiter had only
benefic influences to it, then both houses would, of course, flourish.

Lajjitaadi Avasthas

271

24
Lajjitaadi Avasthas
There are certain conditions under which a planet, whether a
benefic or malefic, becomes either capable of supporting a house or
destroying a house. The condition of a benefic may become such that
it harms the house it is placed in, or the condition of a malefic may
become such that it furthers the house it falls in. These conditions are
known as Lajjitaadi Avasthas, meaning, “ashamed state, etc.” The
Lajjitaadi Avasthas are named thus because the first avastha in the
group is called Lajjita. This group of avasthas affects not only the
planets, but also particularly the house that the avastha is found in.
LAJJITA -ashamed- AVASTHA
A planet in the 5th house joining Rahu or Ketu, or joining the
Sun, Saturn, or Mars.
“Lajjita Avastha indicates aversion to God, loss of intelligence, loss of children or
diseased children, interest in evil speeches, wandering, and listlessness in doing good
things.”
“A planet causing Lajjita Avastha in the 5th house indicates that children will be lost,
though there will remain one child.”
Lajjita Avastha is more powerful when Rahu or Ketu causes it,
than when it is caused by the other malefics. It is particularly severe
when it is caused by the Sun, Mars, or Saturn joining Rahu or Ketu.
There is some confusion with this particular avastha. It is said to
occur due to a planet in the 5th house, yet all classics state that a
planet in the 10th house in Lajjita Avastha indicates penury and
misery. How can a planet causing an avastha in the 5th house be in
the 10th house?

272

Vault of the Heavens

One possiblity is that this avastha could be caused by a planet
joining Rahu, Ketu, the Sun, Saturn or Mars in the 5th house from
any house, not just the 5th house from the lagna. This is not clearly
supported by classics, however, and is therefore debatable. The
classics, in fact, actually state that a planet in the house of children, not
a planet in the fifth house, causes this avastha. This creates doubts in
believing that this avastha could be caused by planets in the 5th from
any house.
The other possibility is that Lajjita Avastha is caused in any house
by the conjunction of a planet with Rahu, Ketu, the Sun, Saturn, or
Mars. This is similar to the Vikala Avastha of the Deeptaadi Avastha
group. The Vikala Avastha, however, specifically affects the planet;
Lajjitaadi avasthas specifically affect the house. I have seen planets
joining Rahu, Ketu, the Sun, Saturn, or Mars indicate shame and
embarrassment to the house they are placed in, and it is my opinion
that using the avastha in this manner yields good results.
I have seen cases of this avastha falling in the 5th house indicating
shame and embarrassment on account of children just like the
classical texts state. However, it does not seem in line with the
general nature of avasthas to consider a combination that can only
fall in one house as an avastha, especially when other results
attributed to this avastha occur when the avastha affects the 10th
house.
It appears most rational to consider this avastha to be formed in
any house by the conjunction of a planet with Rahu, Ketu, the Sun,
Saturn or Mars. However, the student is best to proceed with caution
when applying Lajjita Avastha until assured of its efficacy. The other
avasthas of this group, however, are clear and can be used
confidently.
TRUSHITA -thirsty- AVASTHA
A planet in a watery rasi, aspected by an enemy, and
unaspected by a benefic.

Lajjitaadi Avasthas

273

“Trushita Avastha indicates diseases caused by the association with women, an
inclination towards evil deeds, loss of wealth possibly due to due to one’s own men,
weakness, misery caused by cruel people, and loss of honor.”
Trushita Avastha significantly harms the house it is formed in, but
does not destroy it. The native does not get their needs met in the
areas of life indicated by the house. Some consider this avastha when
the planet in the watery rasi is aspected by a malefic, rather than an
enemy.
KSHOBHITA -agitated- AVASTHA
A planet joining the Sun, aspected by all the malefics and an
enemy.
“Kshobhita Avastha indicates penury, evil disposition, misery, financial distress, foot
disease, and loss of income due to royal wrath.”
Kshobhita Avastha destroys the house. If only some, rather than
all, malefics aspect the concerned planet, then this avastha is partially
obtained and the house suffers, but is not completely destroyed.
KSHUDHITA -hungry- AVASTHA
A planet in an enemy’s rasi, joined and aspected by an
inimical planet, and joined or aspected by Saturn.
“Kshudhita Avastha indicates downfall, grief, mental torment, unrequited desire and
passion, unhappiness with relatives, trouble from enemies, financial distress, and loss
of energy, strength and health.”
Kshudhita Avastha destroys the house. If this avastha is obtained
partially, then the house still suffers but is not completely destroyed.
With regards to this avastha, Jupiter is never considered an enemy,
since Jupiter is a component of Mudita Avastha.

274

Vault of the Heavens

MUDITA -delighted-AVASTHA
A planet in a friendly rasi, with a friend, aspected by a friend,
and joined or aspected by Jupiter.
“Mudita Avastha indicates gain of houses, land, clothes, ornaments, happiness with
women, wife and relatives, living in royal places, destruction of enemies, and
acquisition of wisdom and knowledge.”
Mudita Avastha indicates a strong house, capable of yielding full
results. It is the very opposite of Kshudhita Avastha. If this avastha
only partially obtains, then the house benefits somewhat. With
regards to this avastha, Saturn is never considered a friend, since
Saturn is a component of Kshudhita Avastha.
GARVITA -taking pride in- AVASTHA
A planet in exaltation or moolatrikona.
“Garvita Avastha causes happiness through new houses and gardens, royalty or
kingship, skill in arts, regalhood, reason for pride, financial gains at all times, and
improvement in trade.”
Garvita Avastha indicates a strong house, capable of yielding its
results. This avastha lends truth to the fact that a planet in exaltation
or moolatrikona strengthens the house it is in. Malefics causing
Garvita Avastha are particularly proud.
EFFECTS OF LAJJITAADI AVASTHAS
1. Kshobhita (agitated) and Kshudhita (hungry) Avasthas destroy
the house.
2. Garvita (taking pride in) and Mudita (delighted) Avasthas benefit
a house.
3. Kshobhita (agitated) or Trushita (thirsty) Avastha in the 7th house
indicates that one will loose their spouse.

Lajjitaadi Avasthas

275

4. Lajjita (ashamed), Kshudhita (hungry), Trushita (thirsty) or
Kshobhita (agitated) Avastha in the 10th house indicates that the
native will be subjected to misery.
Quite often a planet will take part in more than one these
avasthas, in which case a blend of both are realized. In the event that
there is both an auspicious and inauspicious avastha, the results of
the planet and house will be mixed.
In many instances a house will partially contain one of these
avasthas, in which case the avastha will have only a partial influence.
For instance, Kshudhita Avastha is caused by a planet in an enemy’s
rasi, aspected by an enemy, joined by an enemy, and joined or
aspected by Saturn. If a planet is only in an enemy’s rasi, and
aspected by an enemy, the avastha would be partially present and
therefore some difficulty would be present, though the house would
not be destroyed.
With regards to those avasthas that are dependent upon friendly
or inimical aspects and conjunctions, natural planetary relationships
should be considered rather than compound relationships.
I have found these avasthas effective when determined using rasi
aspects rather than planetary aspects.
Lajjitaadi Avasthas contain many important principles for judging
the well being or otherwise of a house. Judging a house is simple and
accurate with their application. I have also found that a planet will
give the effects of its Lajjitaadi Avastha to the house it rasi aspects.

Vault of the Heavens

276

Pisces
“Two fishes swimming in opposite directions.”

Shayanaadi Avasthas

277

25
Shayanaadi Avasthas
Shayanaadi Avasthas are a group of mathematical avasthas that
influence the house the avastha is found in as well as the planet
causing the avastha. To calculate the Shayanaadi Avastha of a planet:
1. Multiply the nakshatra that the planet is placed in by the serial
number of the planet: 1 for the Sun, 2 for the Moon, etc. up to 9
for Ketu.
2. Multiply the above product by the amsa (see below) that the
planet is placed in.
3. Add to the above, the number of the lagna (1-12 for AriesPisces), the janma nakshatra (nakshatra of the Moon), and the
Ghati* of birth measured from sunrise.
4. Divide the result by 12, the remainder indicates the avastha:
1. Shayana Avastha, State of Lying down.
2. Upavesha Avastha, State of Sitting.
3. Netrapani Avastha, State of Eye/Hand.
4. Prakaashana Avastha, State of Illuminating.
5. Gamana Avastha, State of Departing.
6. Aagamana Avastha, State of Arriving.
7. Sabhaayaam Vasti Avastha, State of Being in a Council.
8. Aagama Avastha, State of Reaproaching.
9. Bhojana Avastha, State of Eating.
10. Nrityalipsa Avastha, State of Longing to Dance.
11. Kautuka Avastha, State of Eagerness.
12. Nidraa Avastha, State of Slumber.
*A ghati is 24 minutes of time. To determine the ghatis of birth: find the time in
minutes from sunrise to birth, divide by 24, the resultant number, rounded up to
the next whole digit, is the ghati of birth. For example: if 434 minutes have elapsed
from sunrise to birth, divide 434 by 24, the result is 18.0833. Rounding this up to
the next whole digit gives 19, birth occurred in the 19th ghati.

Vault of the Heavens

278

CHESHTA, ETC.
A further calculation is made to determine the extent to which the
effects of the avastha are realized:
1. Square the number of the avastha of the planet concerned.
2. Add the constant which corresponds to the native’s first name:
1
$/a
“Ana”
N/k
“Kate”
&/chh

2
]/i
“Italy”
. /kh

3
4
5
=/u
(/ae
$DR/o
“Umma” “Enid” “Olga”
J/g
* /gh
F/ch
“Gary”
“Charles”
M/j
-/jh
Z/t*
[/th
“Jack”
“Tom”
H/d*
I/dh*
W/t**
7 /th**
G/d**
“Doug”
“Tiffany” “thoraxic” “Denise”
' /dh**
Q/n
S/p
3</ph
E/b
“Perry” “Felicia” “Bob”
% /bh
P/m
\/y
U/r
O/l
Y/v
6 /sh*** 5 /sh*
V/s
K/h
“Sherrie”
“Sam”
*Retroflex, the tongue reaches back upon pronunciation.
**Dental, the tongue reaches towards the front teeth upon
pronunciation.
***Palatal, the tongue presses the sides of the palate.

3. Divide by 12 and keep the remainder.
4. Add the kshepaka (additive quantity) for the respective planet:
Su Mo Ma Me Ju Ve Sa Ra Ke
5
2
2
3
5
3
3
4
4
5. Divide the total by 3. If the remainder is:
1- The avastha is Drishti- apparent, visible.
2- The avastha is Cheshta- moving, action.
3- The avastha is Vicheshta- not moving, motionless.
In Drishti the effect of the avastha upon the planet and the house
that the planet is in is medium, in Cheshta great, and in Vicheshta the
effect of the avastha is very little.

Shayanaadi Avasthas

279

There is some controversy regarding the calculation of this group
of avasthas. In the calculation, Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra and
other texts use the word “amsena,” a singular form of “amsa”
meaning degrees, division, portion, etc. In astrological terminology,
amsa particularly means a division of a rasi, especially referring to the
navamsa. Therefore, amsena could mean the degrees of the planet in
the rasi, the navamsa of the planet in the navamsa chart, or the
number of navamsa, from 1-9, that the planet is in, in the rasi it is
placed in. These are the three possibilities that most who desire to
use the Shayanaadi Avasthas attempt to employ. After much testing I
was not satisfied with either of these and after careful thought and
further testing it is my opinion that “amsena” refers to the nakshatra
pada (quarter) that the planet falls in, each of the four nakshatra
padas are just one amsa (3 degrees, 20 minutes) in extent. My reason
for believing this is that it does not appear rational to multiply the
nakshatra by a factor that, for each nakshatra is incomplete, and is
already indirectly considered. For example, if the degrees of the
planet are used, then each nakshatra can only have the possibility of
14 degrees and not the entire range of 30. Similarly if we use the
navamsa of the planet, only four possibilities amongst twelve are
available for each nakshatra, and if the navamsa in the rasi is
considered then only four possibilities amongst nine are available for
each nakshatra. This prevents any sort of mathematical harmony to
exist in the calculation of the avastha. If, however, the pada of the
nakshatra is used, then in each nakshatra there is the full range of
four possibilities. Testing the avasthas with the pada being considered
has yielded better results then the other theories.
Amongst the many classical texts that provide the calculations for
the Shayanaadi Avasthas, the 17th century, Hora Ratnam, gives an
example of calculating the Shayanaadi Avasthas. In the example the
degrees in the rasi are used. Hora Ratnam, is largely a compilation
and not directly authored by a seer, so there is the possibility that the
author himself did not fully understand the calculations. I myself did
not find the avasthas to be as accurate when calculated with the
degrees and recommend the nakshatra pada.

280

Vault of the Heavens

EFFECTS OF SHAYANAADI AVASTHAS
The general influences of these avasthas upon a house are quite
simple:
“A benefic planet in Shayana Avastha will give auspicious effects at all times to the
house it is placed in.”
“If a malefic is in Bhojana Avastha, the house the planet is in will be completely
destroyed.”
Benefics are particularly beneficial to the house they are placed in
if they are in Shayana Avastha. Malefics are particularly troublesome
to the house they are in when they are in Bhojana Avastha.
Classical texts provide extensive results of these avasthas, which
are being reproduced below. Applying these results blindly will not,
however, yield the most extensive or accurate use of these avasthas.
Considering the meaning of the name of the avastha and what
influence that has upon the planet and the house in which the planet
is situated will yield very revealing results.
The Shayanaadi Avasthas, though giving their results, do not
override the effects of yogas, etc., they just modify them according to
the avastha. The avastha indicates the condition of the planet, not the effect,
therefore the condition of the yoga, etc. is indicated by the avastha, the effect is
determined by the yoga, etc. Many of the classical results given for these
avasthas will be misleading if they are applied as effects rather then
conditions.
Oftentimes many planets will conform to the same avastha, the
nature of that avastha will then particularly influence the native and
color their lives.
The influences of the avasthas upon the health of the native as
stated in the classical texts will be found to be surprisingly accurate at
times.

Shayanaadi Avasthas

281

1. SHAYANA -lying down- AVASTHA
A planet in Shayana Avastha is inactive and lacking initiative and
follow-through. It is unable to provide all of its normally helpful,
active faculties. The planet, however, is conscious and awake with
goals and desires, though being unable to fully actualize these results
in unhappiness. This is generally not an auspicious avastha for the
planet to be in. Only Rahu and Ketu when they are in certain rasis
give auspicious effects in this avastha. The houses with benefics in
this avastha are furthered.
Sun: “If The Sun is in Shayana Avastha, the native will have problematic digestion, many diseases,
stout legs, bilious disorders, ulcer in the anus, disease in the privates, and heart pains.”
Moon: “If the Moon is in Shayana Avastha, the native will be honorable, sluggish with excess vata,
lustful, and facing financial destruction possibly due to addictions.”
Mars: “If Mars is in Shayana Avastha, the native will be troubled by wounds, itches, and ulcers and
ringworm.” “If Mars is in Shayana avastha in the 7th house there will be loss of wife, and if he is in
the 5th House, loss of son. If Mars is in Shayana Avastha in the 6th house and aspected by his
enemies, the native being in the grip of cupid, the god of love, fractures his hand due to quarrels and
fighting. In the 6th house it is indicated that the first wife will be deprived of happiness. If Mars is in
Shayana avastha with Saturn and Rahu, or aspected by an enemy, indicates disease or trouble in the
head. If Mars is in the lagna, he gives eye disease, and spreads diseases throughout the body or
wounds the body.”
Mercury: “If Mercury is in Shayana Avastha in the lagna, the native will be lame and will have
reddish eyes like the Gunja. In other houses, the native will be wicked, greedy, fraudulent, and
addicted to licentious pleasures.”
Jupiter: “If Jupiter is in Shayana Avastha, the native will be strong but will speak in whispers, he will
be tawny in complexion with prominent cheeks (long chin), and he will worry about enemies.”
Venus: “If Venus is in Shayana Avastha, the native though strong, will incur dental disorders, be
short-tempered, lacking wealth, licentious and will seek union with courtesans.”
Saturn: “If Saturn is in Shayana Avastha, the native will be oppressed by hunger and thirst, and do
labor, he will incur diseases as a child, though later he will become wealthy”
Rahu: “If Rahu is in Shayana Avastha, the native will have abundant misery, troubles and diseases.
If Rahu is in Taurus, Gemini, Virgo, or Aries, the native will have wealth and grains.” “If Rahu is
in Shayana avastha in the 2nd, 12th or 11th house, the native wanders over the earth in a state of

282

Vault of the Heavens

penury. If Rahu is in his own, or exaltation rasi, in the rasis of Venus or Mars (some say Mercury
instead of Mars), in his own varga or in the varga of a benefic, he gives auspicious effects. If Rahu is
in other houses, the native is the object of worship of wicked people.”
Ketu: “If Ketu is in Shayana Avastha in Aries, Taurus, Gemini, or Virgo, the native will have
plenty of wealth. In other rasis, the native will have diseases.”
Miscellaneous
“If a malefic in the 5th house is in Shayana Avastha, without a second thought, there will be
auspicious effects.”
“A benefic in Shayana Avastha in the 5th is inauspicious and will destroy children; a malefic in the
same avasthas is auspicious and will give children. If, however, the malefic is in own rasi, exaltation, or
moolatrikona, the auspiciousness will be destroyed. A benefic in the 5th in this avasthas and aspected by
another benefic will surely cause the early death of the first child.”
“If there is a malefic in the 8th house in Shayana Avastha, untimely death due to royal wrath will
come to pass. If there is a benefic aspect or conjunction, then death will happen in the Ganges River.”
“If there is a malefic in the 10th in Shayana Avastha, the native will suffer many miseries on account
of his own deeds, and wander all over the world in poverty.”
“Saturn, Rahu or Mars in the 8th in Shayana Avastha indicates death due to having one’s head
severed from his body.”
“If a planet in Shayana avastha is together with a malefic in the 8th house, then the native is put to
death by his enemy's wrath. If the planet is in conjunction with or aspected by benefics, or if the 8th
house is occupied by the 8th lord, then at the time of death the native reaches the shore of the Holy
Ganga and dies a holy death there. A malefic in the 8th in Shayana Avastha indicates death through
royal punishment or enemies. If the malefic is aspected by a benefic, death will be at the Ganges
River. If the aspect is instead by a malefic, death will be due to having one’s head severed from his
body.”

2. UPAVESHA -sitting- AVASTHA
Planets in Upavesha Avastha are in a waiting, receptive state. The
male, initiating planets are not effective in receiving, therefore even
the male benefics are unfavorable in this avastha. The benefic female
planets are the only planets capable of being receptive to auspicious
effects, but the Moon, not being capable of discrimination in this
state, also indicates poor results in this avastha. The other female
benefic, Venus, therefore, is the only planet that indicates fortunate
results in this avastha. Mercury being a benefic neuter is favorable in
this avastha when influenced by benefics or in good dignity.

Shayanaadi Avasthas

283

Sun: “If The Sun is in Upavesha Avastha, the native will suffer poverty, carry loads, indulge in
litigation, be hard-hearted, wicked, and lose in his undertakings.”
Moon: “If the Moon is in Upavesha Avastha, the native will be dull-witted, hard hearted, doing
unworthy acts, and troubled by diseases. He will steal other’s wealth, destroy some others, and himself
have only negligible wealth. (The native will be crooked, and have injured teeth).”
Mars: If Mars is in Upavesha Avastha, the native will be strong, sinful, untruthful, lacking wisdom,
eminent, wealthy, and bereft of virtues.
Mercury: “If Mercury is in Upavesha Avastha in the lagna, the native will possess virtues. If
Mercury is aspected or joined with a malefic, penury will result, but if joined or aspected by a benefic
(but if in friendly or exaltation rasi), financial happiness will follow.”
Jupiter: “If Jupiter is in Upavesha Avastha, the native will be garrulous and proud, he will be
troubled by the king and enemies, and he will have ulcers or wounds on the feet, thighs, face, and
hands.”
Venus: “If Venus is in Upavesha Avastha, the native will be endowed with many nine gem and golden
ornaments. He will always be happy, will destroy enemies, and be honored by the king. He will have
the highest honors.”
Saturn: “If Saturn is in Upavesha Avastha the native will be troubled by enemies, will suffer danger,
have ulcers all over his body. He will be proud, self-centered, and punished by the king.”
Rahu: “If Rahu is in Upavesha Avastha the native will have ulcers, ringworm, and lack financial wellbeing, though honorable and having royal association.”
Ketu: “If Ketu is in Upavesha Avastha the native will suffer from ulcers and windy diseases, he will be
troubled by enemies, snakes and thieves.”

3. NETRAPAANI -eye/hand- AVASTHA
This avastha requires will, effort, concentration and direction to
benefit from; therefore only the malefic embodied planets, the Sun,
Saturn and Mars, are favorable in this avastha. In some cases Venus is
auspicious in this avastha as well, since Venus has a martial aspect as
well (see Parasurama).
Sun: “If The Sun is in Netrapani Avastha, the native will always be happy and helpful to others,
gaining royal favors, and endowed with prowess, wealth, and wisdom.” “If the Sun is in the 5th, 9th,
10th (or 7th) house in Netrapani avastha, the effects are auspicious and all desires would be fulfilled.”

284

Vault of the Heavens

Moon: “If the Moon is in Netrapani Avastha, the native will be troubled by chronic disease, he will
be garrulous, deceitful, wicked, (heroic, with eye diseases, and leg enlargement) and indulging in bad
deeds.”
Mars: “If Mars is placed in the lagna in Netrapani Avastha there will be penury. In other houses
Netrapani Avastha will confer lordship of a city.” “If Mars is in Netrapani avastha in the lagna, then
the native gets his limbs broken due to fighting while being in the grip of the god of love (suffers from
fire and looses a part of the body. The same is likely to happen to the wife if Mars is in the 7th). The
native will also be subjected to fear from snakes, fire and water, dental disease, eye trouble, and may
loose his wife.”
Mercury: “If Mercury is in Netrapani Avastha, the native will be proud and devoid of learning,
wisdom, well-wishers, and satisfaction. If Mercury is in the 5th house in Netrapani Avastha, the subject
will be bereft of happiness from wife and sons, will have more daughters (loss of son and the birth of
daughter) and will gain abundant wealth through royal patronage (will be excellent and a scholar in
the kings court).”
Jupiter: “If Jupiter is in Netrapani Avastha the native will be afflicted by diseases, devoid of wealth,
fond of music and dance, libidinous, tawny in complexion and attached to people of other castes.”
Venus: “If Venus is in Netrapani Avastha in the lagna, 7th or 10th house, the native will loose wealth,
and their sight will be afflicted. In other houses, the native will own large houses. (If Venus is in
Netrapani avastha in the lagna, 7th or 10th house, she is extremely auspicious, and makes the body
strong, but decays the Teeth and increases sexual desire).”
Saturn: “If Saturn is in Netrapani Avastha, the native will have a charming woman, wealth, royal
favor, and friends. He will be knowledgeable in many arts, and be an eloquent speaker.”
Rahu: “If Rahu is in Netrapani Avastha, the native will have eye diseases, fear from the wicked,
snakes, and thieves, and he will suffer financial decline.”
Ketu: “If Ketu is in Netrapani Avastha, the native will have eye diseases, loss of wealth, an inconstant
mind, and trouble from the wicked, snakes, enemies, and people from royal families.”

4. PRAKAASHANA -illuminating- AVASTHA
Prakaashana is generally an auspicious avastha that indicates a
planet “illuminating” the native with its best qualities. This
illumination comes from within; therefore this avastha is one that
indicates happiness. Planets in this avastha are particularly capable of
bringing those things in the mind to a concrete realization.

Shayanaadi Avasthas

285

Sun: “If The Sun is in Prakaashana Avastha, the native will be liberal in disposition, a significant
speaker in the council, with plenty of wealth, performing many meritorious acts, strong, and endowed
with charming beauty.” “If the Sun is in the 12th, 7th 10th or the 5th house in Prakaashana avastha,
the native looses his son or wife.”
Moon: “If the Moon be in Prakaashana Avastha, the native will be famous, and have his virtues
exposed through royal patronage. Horses, elephants, females, and jewelry will surround him. He will
also visit shrines.” “If The Moon is in the 10th in Prakaashana Avastha, a Raja Yoga occurs.”
Mars: “Should Mars be in Prakaashana Avastha, the native will shine with virtues, be honored by
the king, (and live in foreign lands). Mars in Prakaashana Avastha in the 5th (or 7th) house causes
loss of children and of wife. If Mars in Prakaashana Avastha is in the 5th with Rahu, the native will
have a great fall from position (fall from a tree).” “(If Mars is in Prakaashana avastha in the 5th or
7th house, the native respectively looses his son or his wife. If Mars is in conjunction with malefics, or is
hemmed between malefics, the native is the foremost among sinners).”
Mercury: “If Mercury is in Prakaashana Avastha, the native will be charitable, merciful, and
meritorious. He will cross the ocean in respect to many branches of learning, be endowed with the
faculty of discrimination, and will destroy the pride of wicked people.”
Jupiter: “If Jupiter is in Prakaashana Avastha, the native will be virtuous, happy, and splendorous.
Visiting holy places, he will be devoted to Lord Krishna. If Jupiter is also exalted, the native will attain
greatness among men and will be equal to Kubera (the lord of wealth).”
Venus: “If Venus is in Prakaashana Avastha and in its own, exaltation, or friendly rasi, the native
will sport like a lofty elephant, will be equal to a king, and will be skilful in poetry and music.”
Saturn: “If Saturn is in Prakaashana Avastha, the native will be virtuous, wealthy, intelligent, witty,
sportive, splendorous, merciful, and devoted to Lord Shiva (some say Vishnu).”
Rahu: “If Rahu is in Prakaashana Avastha, the native will gain a high position, be famous, increase
his financial position, will perform good deeds, and be virtuous and charming. He will be a chief in the
king's court and prosperous in foreign places.”
Ketu: “If Ketu is in Prakaashana Avastha, the native will be wealthy, righteous, famous, enthusiastic
and genuine. He will live happily in foreign places and will serve the king.”

5. GAMANA -departing- AVASTHA
Planets in Gamana Avastha are beginning to move towards their
tangible goals. They are either feeling inspired towards activity, or
suffering on account of leaving what is dear to them. Mercury,
Jupiter, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu are generally inclined to be inspired

286

Vault of the Heavens

towards their activities when in Gamana Avastha; they are therefore
auspicious when in this avastha. The Sun, Moon and Mars have some
difficulty in adjusting to new things and are generally inclined to
experience suffering on account of what must be left behind when in
Gamana Avastha; they are therefore inauspicious when in this
avastha. Venus has difficulty with moving forward through the
changes that are required when in Gamana Avastha; Venus is
therefore also inauspicious when in this avastha.
Sun: If The Sun is in Gamana Avastha the native will be forced to live in foreign places; he will be
miserable, short-tempered, indolent, without intelligence or wealth, and distressed and fearful.”
Moon: “If the waning Moon is in Gamana Avastha, the native will be sinful, cruel, and always
troubled by afflictions to their sight. The waxing Moon in Gamana Avastha indicates that the native
will be distressed due to fear.”
Mars: “If Mars is in Gamana Avastha the native will always be roaming, will have fear of multiple
ulcers, will have misunderstanding with women, will be afflicted by boils, itches, etc., and suffer
financial decline (on account of enemies).”
Mercury: “If Mercury is in Gamana Avastha the native will visit the courts of kings on many
occasions, (have a beautifully adorned house, land from the king), and Goddess Lakshmi will dwell in
his abode.”
Jupiter: “If Jupiter is in Gamana Avastha the native will be adventurous, happy due to friends,
scholarly with Vedic knowledge, and having various types of wealth.”
Venus: “If Venus is in Gamana Avastha, the native’s mother will not live long, he will sorrow over
the separation from his people and worry about enemies.”
Saturn: “If Saturn is in Gamana Avastha the native will be rich, with sons, and a scholar at the
royal court. He will take the land of his enemies.”
Rahu: “If Rahu is in Gamana Avastha the native will have many children, be scholarly, wealthy,
charitable, and honored by the king.”
Ketu: “If Ketu is in Gamana Avastha, the native will have many sons, abundant wealth, and be
scholarly, virtuous, charitable, and the best among men.”
Miscellaneous
“A benefic in the 10th house in Gamana Avastha indicates grief related to work”

Shayanaadi Avasthas

287

6. AAGAMANA -arriving- AVASTHA
Planets in Aagamana Avastha are just arriving at their tangible
goals. Mercury, Jupiter and Venus, being capable of producing
tangible benefits, are very auspicious in this avastha. Mars is very
capable of finding happiness through fulfilling an objective; he is
therefore also very auspicious in this avastha. Saturn, Rahu and Ketu,
not being capable of finding happiness with anything, are
inauspicious in this avastha. The Sun and Moon, the lights of the soul
and consciousness, are limited in this avastha, whatever tangible
benefits they may produce are much less then the happiness they are
capable of; they are therefore also not auspicious when in Gamana
Avastha.
Sun: “If The Sun is in Aagamana Avastha, the native will be interested others' wives, and be without
the company of his own men, he will be interested in travel and skilful in doing evil deeds; he will be
dirty, cruel, miserly, ill-disposed and a tale bearer.”
Moon: “If The Moon is in Aagamana Avastha, the native will be honorable and proud, though
suffering diseases in the feet, and secretly indulging in sinful acts. He will be poor and lacking
intelligence and happiness.”
Mars: “If Mars is in Aagamana Avastha, the native will be virtuous, endowed with precious gems,
and adoring a sharp sword. He will walk with the (majestic) gait of an elephant, will destroy his
enemies, and will remove the troubles and miseries of his people.”
Mercury: “If Mercury is in Aagamana Avastha, the same effects due to his being in Gamana
Avastha will fructify- the native will visit the courts of kings on many occasions and Goddess Lakshmi
will dwell in his abode.”
Jupiter: “If Jupiter is in Aagamana Avastha, attendants, excellent women, and Sri Lakshmi will never
leave the native's abode.”
Venus: “If Venus is in Aagamana Avastha, the native will command great wealth, will visit shrines,
will always be enthusiastic, but will have hand and foot diseases.”
Saturn: “If Saturn is in Aagamana Avastha, the native will be like to a donkey, and lack happiness
from wife and children. He will roam pitiably without anybody's endorsement. (He will live in a lonely
place and suffer diseased feet).”

288

Vault of the Heavens

Rahu: “If Rahu is in Aagamana Avastha, the native will be irritable, lacking intelligence and wealth,
crooked, miserly, and lustful.”
Ketu: “If Ketu is in Aagamana Avastha, the native will suffer many diseases, will loose wealth, be
wicked minded, lustful, lacking intelligence, will hurt with his teeth, be a tale bearer and blame others.”

7. SABHAAYAAM VASTI -being in a council- AVASTHA
Planets in Sabhaayaam Vasti Avastha are befitting a position in a
council through qualities of dignity, excellence, and selfless service.
Planets in Sabhaayaam Vasti Avastha are capable of making the best
possible decisions. All planets are capable of something beneficial
when in Sabhaayaam Vasti Avastha; given what they are and what
they must do they are able to make the most of it. The benefits of the
planets are very pronounced when in this avastha. All planets, except
Ketu, are considered auspicious in this avastha.
Sun: “If The Sun is in Sabhaayaam Vasti Avastha, the native will be inclined to help others, he will
be always endowed with wealth and gems, land, new houses and clothes. He will be strong and
virtuous, affectionate to his friends, and kindly disposed. He will be interested in pursuing many
branches of knowledge, be eloquent and have impressive eyes.”
Moon: “If the Moon is in Sabhaayaam Vasti Avastha, the native will be virtuous, eminent, honored
by kings and kings of kings. Beautiful, he will subdue the passion of women and be skilled in sexual
acts.”
Mars: “If Mars, exalted, is placed in Sabhaayaam Vasti Avastha, the native will be skilful in
conducting wars, will hold the flag of righteousness aloft, and will be wealthy. If Mars is in
Sabhaayaam Vasti Avastha in the 5th or 9th house, the native will be bereft of learning. In the 12th
house there will be childlessness and no wife and no friends. If Mars is in other houses, the native will
be a scholar in a king's court, wealthy, honorable, and charitable.”
Mercury: “If Mercury is in Sabhaayaam Vasti Avastha and in exaltation, the native will be affluent
and meritorious at all times, and equal to Kubera (the lord of wealth). A virtuous king or a minister,
he will be sattvic, devoted to Lord Vishnu and Lord Shiva, and will attain full enlightenment.” “If
Mercury is in Sabhaayaam Vasti Avastha in the 7th or 5th house, more daughters than sons will be
born.”
Jupiter: “If Jupiter is in Sabhaayaam Vasti Avastha, the native will speak as well as Jupiter and be
very learned (in sastras and many branches of knowledge). He will be endowed with the best corals
and rubies, and wealth as well as being rich with elephants, horses, and chariots.”

Shayanaadi Avasthas

289

Venus: “If Venus is in Sabhaayaam Vasti Avastha the native will gain eminence in the king's court,
be virtuous, a skilled orator, charitable, will destroy enemies, be equal to Kubera (the lord of wealth)
in wealth, will ride on horses, and be the best among men.”
Saturn: “If Saturn is in Sabhaayaam Vasti Avastha the native will have abundant gems and gold.
He will be brilliant and have great judicial and political knowledge.”
Rahu: “If Rahu is in Sabhaayaam Vasti Avastha the native will be scholarly, miserly, with many
virtues, wealth, and sources of happiness.”
Ketu: “If Ketu is in Sabhaayaam Avastha the native will be garrulous, proud, miserly, licentious, and
skilled in evil branches of learning and deception.”

8. AAGAMA -reappearing- AVASTHA
Planets in Aagama Avastha are in a state of balancing the results
of living in the material world. These planets generally suffer crisis
and breaks and indicate needed lessons. Planets in this avastha with
more malefic influences upon them are particularly adverse. Most of
the planets are inauspicious in this avastha, except for Jupiter and the
benefic Moon, the two, sattvic benefics. Mercury indicates some
good effects in this avastha as well, since it is a planet that gives the
ability to appreciate things without any judgment.
Sun: “If The Sun is in Aagama Avastha, the native will be distressed on account of enemies, he will
be fickle and evil minded, emaciated, devoid of virtuous acts and intoxicated with pride.”
Moon: “If the Moon is in Aagama Avastha, the native will be garrulous, and virtuous. If the Moon
is waning the native will have two wives; be sick, wicked, stubborn, and violent.”
Mars: “If Mars is in Aagama Avastha, the native will be timid, befriend an evil lot, and be devoid of
virtues and good deeds. Distressed by diseases, he will suffer diseases in the root of the ear, and ever
have gout pains.”
Mercury: “If Mercury is in Aagama Avastha the native will serve base men and gain wealth thereby.
He will have two sons, and one daughter of good qualities who brings fame.”
Jupiter: “If Jupiter is in Aagama Avastha, the native will be endowed with various conveyances,
honors, and retinue, good children, wife, and friends. Full of learning, he will be equal to a king,
noble, fond of literature, and virtuous.”
Venus: “If Venus is in Aagama Avastha, the native will have no gain of wealth, but troubles from
enemies, separation from children and relatives, diseases, and lack of marital pleasure.”

290

Vault of the Heavens

Saturn: “If Saturn is in Aagama Avastha, the native will have diseases, and will not be capable in
gaining royal patronage.”
Rahu: “If Rahu is in Aagama Avastha, the native will be mentally distressed, crafty, and emaciated.
He will worry about enemies and litigation. He will be without his own men, will not live with his
family, and will face financial destruction.”
Ketu: If Ketu is in Aagama Avastha, the native will be a notorious sinner, wicked, troubled by disease
and enemies, and engage in litigation with his relatives.”

9. BHOJANA -eating- AVASTHA
Most planets in Bhojana Avastha suffer the lack that is the result
of no lasting inner happiness; they are therefore generally considered
inauspicious. Only the two, sattvic benefics, the benefic Moon and
Jupiter, are favorable in this avastha, since they are the planets that
are most inclined towards contentment. In practice, planets in
Bhojana Avastha seem to indicate areas of emotional starvation and
natives, with many planets in this avastha, other than Jupiter and the
benefic Moon, are not found to be happy. Malefics in this avastha
particularly harm, or devour, the house they are in.
Sun: “If The Sun is in Bhojana Avastha, the native will have joint pain, headaches, ear disease,
declining strength, and will lose money on account of other’s women. He will be untruthful, take to bad
ways and eat left over food, meat, or be unable to digest his food.” “If the Sun being in the Bhojana
avastha is in the 9th house, he causes obstacles to charitable deeds and meritorious works, and makes
one weak in moral strength.”
Moon: “If the Moon is in Bhojana Avastha, the native will be endowed with honor, conveyances,
attendants, social status, wife and daughters, if the Moon is waxing. If the Moon is waning, these
auspicious effects will not be realized”
Mars: “If Mars, with strength, is in Bhojana Avastha, the native will eat sweet-food. If Mars is
devoid of strength, the native will indulge in base acts and be dishonorable.”
Mercury: “If Mercury is in Bhojana Avastha, the native will face financial losses through litigation,
will decline physically due to fear from the king. He will be fickle-minded and will lack wealth and
conjugal happiness.”
Jupiter: “If Jupiter is in Bhojana Avastha the native will always have excellent food, horses, elephants
and chariots, and Sri Lakshmi, the Goddess of Wealth, will never leave his house.” “If Jupiter is in
Bhojana avastha in the lagna, the native becomes an archer. If Jupiter is in the 5th or 9th (with a

Shayanaadi Avasthas

291

malefic) the native is bereft of wealth. If Jupiter is joined with malefics, the native remains without sons.
Jupiter in the lagna in Sagittarius in Bhojana Avastha with a malefic, indicates childlessness.”
Venus: If Venus is in Bhojana Avastha, the native will be distressed due to hunger, diseases, and
enemies. But if Venus is in Virgo, the native will be rich and honored by scholars.”
Saturn: “If Saturn is in Bhojana Avastha, the native will enjoy tasty food, but be weak-sighted and
fickle-minded due to mental delusions and lack of knowledge.”
Rahu: “If Rahu is in Bhojana Avastha, the native will be distressed, without food, dull-witted, timid in
his actions, and without conjugal of progenic happiness.”
Ketu: “If Ketu is in Bhojana Avastha, the native will always be roaming around the world, distressed
with hunger, penury and disease.”
Miscellaneous
“If there is a malefic in the 10th in Bhojana Avastha, the native will suffer many miseries on account of
his own deeds, and wander all over the world in poverty.”

10. NRITYALIPSA -longing to dance- AVASTHA
Planets in Nrityalipsa Avastha produce beneficial manifestations
of their effects, the “dance of creation”. This is the most active of all
the avasthas. This is an auspicious avastha, giving power and energy
to the planets with which to produce their indications. Planets in this
avastha are productive, not to fulfill a desire for happiness, but
because it is necessary for them to do so. Rahu and Ketu are
generally not considered auspicious in this Avastha; some classical
texts, however, give good effects to Rahu when it is in this avastha
and I am inclined to agree that Rahu is favorable in this avastha.
Sun: “If The Sun is in NrityaLipsa Avastha, the native will be a scholar honored by the learned and
adored by the kings of the earth. He will have knowledge of tales, poetry, etc. He will be attractive,
wealthy and virtuous, and have colic pains”
Moon: “If the Moon is in NrityaLipsa Avastha and strong (waxing), the native will be strong, having
the knowledge of songs, and the ability to be a critic of the beauty of things. If the Moon is waning the
native will be sinful.”
Mars: “If Mars is in NrityaLipsa Avastha, the native will earn wealth through the king and be great,
he will have gold, diamonds, and corals in his house.”

292

Vault of the Heavens

Mercury: “If Mercury is in NrityaLipsa Avastha, the native will be powerful, endowed with honor,
conveyances, corals, sons, friends, prowess, and recognition in assemblies on account of his scholarship.
If Mercury is in the rasi of a malefic the native will be addicted to prostitutes and will long for licentious
pleasures.”
Jupiter: “If Jupiter is in NrityaLipsa Avastha, the native will be the best among the learned, gain
royal honors, be wealthy, quick witted, have knowledge of dharma and tantra, and be a great
grammarian.”
Venus: “If Venus is in NrityaLipsa Avastha, the native will be intelligent and skillful in literature, will
play musical instruments be meritorious, and affluent with increasing wealth.”
Saturn: “If Saturn is in NrityaLipsa Avastha, the native will be righteous, saintly, opulent, brave,
heroic in war, and honored by the king.”
Rahu: “If Rahu is in NrityaLipsa Avastha, the native will contract serious diseases that are difficult to
cure and have eye afflictions, and worry about enemies. His finances and righteousness will decline.”
“(In other houses than the lagna, Rahu in NrityaLipsa Avastha indicates a very wealthy native, with
all kinds of happiness, virtues, two wives and many sons).”
Ketu: “If Ketu is in NrityaLipsa Avastha, the native will suffer diseases, will have a floral mark on his
eye (not have fixed eyesight), be impertinent, wicked and make evil plans.”

11. KAUTUKA -eagerness- AVASTHA
Planets in Kautuka Avastha are eager to gain the fruition of their
beneficial indications. This avastha indicates the greatest gains
possible, the grand finale. Planets in this avastha are considered
auspicious, although Rahu and Ketu are generally considered
inauspicious in this avastha by most authoritative texts. Planets have
been seen to give their beneficial results very quickly and surely when
in this avastha.
Sun: “If The Sun is in Kautuka Avastha, the native will always be happy, charming, moving among
kings, and courageous when faced by his enemies. Endowed with Vedic and poetic knowledge he will
perform Yagyas.” “If the Sun is in Kautuka avastha in the 6th house he is the killer of the native's
enemies. If the Sun is in Kautuka avastha in the 7th or 5th house he causes the wife's and son's death
and disease in the sexual organs.”
Moon: “If the Moon is in Kautuka Avastha, the native will attain kingship, lordship over wealth, and
skill in sexual acts and intercourse with young women or harlots. If The Moon is in the 10th in
Kautuka a Raja Yoga occurs.”

Shayanaadi Avasthas

293

Mars: “If Mars is in Kautuka Avastha, the native will be curious in disposition, having friends and
sons, and enjoy games and sports. If Mars is also exalted, the native will be virtuous, (a scholar in the
kings court) and honored by the king and the virtuous.”
Mercury: “If Mercury is in Kautuka Avastha in the lagna, the native will be skilful in music. If in the
7th or 8th house, the native will be addicted to courtesans. In the 9th house, the native will be
meritorious and attain heaven after death.”
Jupiter: “If Jupiter is in Kautuka Avastha, the native will be curious in disposition, and rich. He will
glow like the Sun in his circle and be a scholar in the king’s court. He will be very kind, strong,
happy, honored by kings, and have sons, wealth, and a just disposition.”
Venus: “If Venus is in Kautuka Avastha, the native will be equal to Lord Indra. He will attain
greatness in councils, be learned and will have Sri Lakshmi always dwelling in his house.”
Saturn: “If Saturn is in Kautuka Avastha the native will have land and wealth. He will be happy,
enjoy pleasure with charming women, and be learned in poetry, and the arts.”
Rahu: “If Rahu is in Kautuka Avastha, the native will be without place or position. He will be
interested in others' women, and will steal others' wealth.” “(Rahu in Kautuka Avastha indicates one
with all virtues and wealth, but suffering from bilious disorders).”
Ketu: “If Ketu is in Kautuka Avastha, the native will seek union with dancing women, take to evil
ways and wander all over. He will be displaced from his position, and become penniless.”

12. NIDRAA -slumber- AVASTHA
Planets in Nidraa Avastha are slumbering and unable to give their
full effects. Benefics are not considered fortunate in this avastha since
they are unable to give their full beneficial effects. Saturn, Rahu and
Ketu, are considered auspicious in this avastha, since, in their
slumbering, they are unable to give their usual difficulties. The Sun
and Mars, the active fiery planets, are inauspicious in this avastha
since their activities are subdued. Planets in this avastha have a note
of completion and resolution, the malefics having completed their
inauspicious effects and the benefics having completed their
auspicious effects. Planets in this avastha tend to be vague and
unfocused.

294

Vault of the Heavens

Sun: “If The Sun is in Nidra Avastha, the native will have a tendency towards drowsiness and always
have red eyes due to sleepiness; he will live in foreign places, incur harm to his wife, and suffer
financial destruction.”
Moon: “If the waxing Moon, joined with Jupiter, is in Nidra Avastha, the native will be eminent. If
the Moon without Jupiter’s conjunction is in Nidra Avastha, (and waning, the native will have a mix
of good and ill qualities and) the native will lose his wealth on account of women, and female jackals
will be crying around his abode, and he will suffer poverty and pain.” “In Nidra avastha, in the 5th or
7th house, the Moon grants many auspicious effects, but if the Moon is with Rahu, there will be
destruction of many things, and the native will have many blemishes.”
Mars: If Mars is in Nidra Avastha, the native will be short-tempered, wicked, fallen from virtue,
troubled by diseases, and devoid of intelligence and wealth.”
Mercury: “If Mercury is in Nidra Avastha, the native will not sleep well, will be afflicted by neck or
neck joint diseases (bodily or mental pain). He will be without siblings or have trouble with them, and
be afflicted with abundant miseries. He will enter into litigation with his own men, and he will lose
wealth and honor.”
Jupiter: “If Jupiter is in Nidra Avastha, the native will be foolish in all his actions, will suffer
irredeemable penury, and will be devoid of any good acts.”
Venus: “If Venus is in Nidra Avastha, the native will be serving others, will blame and speak ill of
others, be heroic, garrulous, and wandering all over the earth.”
Saturn: “If Saturn is in Nidra Avastha the native will be rich, valorous, with charm and virtue. He
will destroy the strongest enemies, and seek pleasure in harlots.”
Rahu: “If Rahu is in Nidra Avastha the native will be a repository of virtues, bold, proud, and
affluent, with a good wife and children.”
“If Rahu is in Nidra Avastha in the 9th or 7th (some say 5th instead of 7th) house, the native certainly
gets a home in a place of pilgrimage.”
“If Rahu is in own, exaltation, or friendly rasi, or in the rasi of Venus or Mercury, is in the 5th in
Nidra Avastha joined or aspected by a malefic, the native will loose all his children. If Rahu is
aspected by a benefic, only one child will die.”
“If Rahu is in conjunction with Saturn and Mars in the 8th house, and if one of these is in Nidra
avastha, the native is attacked and killed by a weapon. Saturn, Rahu or Mars in the 8th in Nidra
Avastha indicates death due to having one’s head severed from his body.”
Ketu: “If Ketu is in Nidra Avastha the native will have wealth and grains. He will be virtuous and
spend his time in lively sport, entertainment, and in beneficial conversation.”

Shayanaadi Avasthas

295

Miscellaneous
“A benefic in the 10th house in Nidra Avastha indicates misery related to work”
“If a malefic is in the 7th in Nidra Avastha, auspicious effects will follow, if there is no aspect from
another malefic.”
“If a malefic in the 5th house is in Nidra, without a second thought, there will be auspicious effects.”
“A benefic in Nidra Avastha in the 5th is inauspicious and will destroy children; a malefic in the same
avasthas is auspicious and will give children. If, however, the malefic is in own rasi, exaltation, or
moolatrikona, the auspiciousness will be destroyed. A benefic in the 5th in this avastha, aspected by
another benefic, will surely cause the early death of the first child.”
“If a planet in exaltation, or own rasi is in the 5th house in Nidra avastha, joined or aspected by a
malefic, it causes loss of children. If aspected by benefics, then one son remains alive, though the rest
are subjected to death.”
“If a benefic is in Nidra avastha in the 8th house, in conjunction with, or aspected, by a malefic or an
enemy, then the native is killed by a weapon in war.”
“If there is a malefic in the 8th house in Nidra, untimely death due to royal wrath will come to pass. If
there is a benefic aspect or conjunction, then death will happen in the Ganges River.”
“If a planet in Nidra avastha is together with a malefic in the 8th house, then the native is put to death
by his enemy's wrath. If the planet is in conjunction with, or aspected by benefics, or if the 8th house is
occupied by the 8th lord, then at the time of death the native reaches the shore of the Holy Ganga and
dies a holy death there. A malefic in the 8th in Nidra Avastha indicates death through royal
punishment or enemies. If the malefic is aspected by a benefic, death will be at the Ganges River. If
the aspect is instead by a malefic, death will be due to having one’s head severed from his body.”
“If a malefic, badly afflicted by other malefics, is in the 7th house in Nidra avastha, the death of the
native’s wife occurs. If there is the aspect of benefics to the 7th house, the death of the native's wife is
not caused. If a malefic in the 7th house in Nidra avastha is conjoined with or aspected by an enemy,
and in an enemy’s rasi, there will be the immediate death of the native's wife. If, with these
combinations, the malefic is in conjunction with or aspected by benefics, then the native will get a second
wife in the event of the death of the first wife. If the 7th is aspected by both benefics and malefics, the
wife will be in pain.”

AUSPICIOUS AND INAUSPICIOUS EFFECTS
The following table indicates the general auspicious (+), inauspicious
(-), mixed (M), or conditional (C) effects of the planets in the twelve
different avasthas:

Vault of the Heavens

296

Sun
Moon
Mars
Mercury
Jupiter
Venus
Saturn
Rahu
Ketu

1
M
M
C
C

2
M
C
+
-

3
+
C
C
+
-

4
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+

5
+
+
+
+
+

6
M
+
+
+
+
-

7
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
-

8
M
M
+
-

9
C
C
+
C
-

10
+
C
+
C
+
+
+
C
-

11
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
-

12
C
+
+
+

SUMMARY OF AVASTHAS
Avasthas are one of the most important facets of Vedic astrology;
they are essential principles by which the horoscope can simply and
accurately be judged. In this work the three types of avasthas that
have a bearing on the well-being of the planets and houses have been
covered. The first group of avasthas covered, the Deeptaadi
Avasthas, particularly influence the planets, though they also
influence the houses. The second group of avasthas covered, the
Lajjittaadi Avasthas, particularly influence the houses, though they
also influence the planets. The avasthas covered in this chapter, the
Shayanaadi Avasthas, significantly influence the planets as well as the
houses. The unique factor about Shayanaadi Avasthas is that, due to
the native’s name being a factor in the calculation, they are an
important indication of why people born at the same time with the
same rasi chart have different lives. Though people born at the same
time will have the same Shayanaadi Avasthas, the degree the avastha
influences the native differs dependent upon the result their name
has on the avastha being Drishti, Cheshta, or Vicheshta.
Shayanaadi Avasthas are a very unexplored territory in Vedic
astrology, their research is sure to yield a lot of knowledge. What has
been presented is what my researches have thus far revealed. This
short chapter, however, surely does them no justice.
In addition to the three types of avasthas covered in this text,
there are two additional avasthas that are important for quantifying
the effects of the planets, which hope to be treated in a separate text.

Developmental Qualities of the Planets

297

26
Developmental Qualities
Of the Planets
The planets in their natural order are: 1-Sun, 2-Moon, 3-Mars, 4Mercury, 5-Jupiter, 6-Venus, 7-Saturn, 8-Rahu and 9-Ketu. The
planets numerical order reveals insights into their purposes and their
effects on Man’s consciousness:
Sun, 1
The Sun is the 1st planet and symbolizes the creative aspect. Being
the One, it is undifferentiated and it is therefore not conducive to
material manifestations, since material manifestations require
differentiation. As a result of this the Sun separates us from those
things it influences in the horoscope. In fact, the Sun is presided by
Agni, Agni certainly consumes, but Agni is also the conveyer to the
Gods. What the Sun separates the native from is conveyed to the
Gods, or said another way, it is what spiritualizes a person, through
sacrifice. Another influence of the Sun being the first planet is that it
can make a person “number one,” giving status, and making the Sun
the king.
Moon, 2
The Moon is the 2nd planet, the reflection of the 1st planet the
Sun. The Moon is presided by Varuna, the God of the Waters, or
consciousness. Varuna is considered a supreme deity; all things
happen only in consciousness. Two is the beginning of the
differentiation that takes place in the reflective consciousness. The
differentiation is between the creative aspect, the Sun, and its
reflection, the Moon. They are different because they are opposite.
The Moon provides the Sun, the creative aspect, with the reflection it
needs to view itself. Viewing itself it becomes aware of itself. After

298

Vault of the Heavens

becoming aware of itself it will see itself as a particular manifestation.
The enjoyment of the manifestation will depend upon the quality of
the Moon. If the Moon is afflicted, the perceived manifestation of the
Sun, the Self, are skewed, resulting in unhappiness, depression and
frustration. The quantity the Self enjoys of itself as a manifestation is
determined by the fullness of the Moon. When the Moon is very
dark, there is less of itself that the Self enjoys in the world.
The Moon is a receptive, reflective planet, therefore, the
influences to the Moon are most important; these largely condition
one's outlook on life. The aspects or conjunction of the Moon to
other planets and houses is of secondary importance; these indicate
the growth of things as a result of what is in one's consciousness.
When the Moon is less bright than it is dark, it is not felt that needs
are being met in the areas influenced by the Moon.
Mars, 3
Mars is the 3rd planet, what follows the viewing of the Sun's
reflection in the Moon. This gives an exchange between the first two
things, the creative aspect, the Sun, and its reflection, the Moon.
What happens between the reflection of the Self, the Sun, in the
Consciousness, the Moon, is Mars, thoughts are generated. These
thoughts yield concepts that determine what something is.
Determining what something is causes like or dislike. In liking we
pursue with energy, in disliking, we become frustrated with or
destroy. These concepts are dependent upon the admixture of the
three gunas. To be free of the gunas is to be liberated.
It is Mars that indicates the concepts Man has of should and
should not that he is even willing to fight for or destroy. These
concepts take us outside ourselves and ruin our mental peace. Mental
freedom and peace come from understanding the effect that our
mental concepts have in creating peace or agitation. That is why Mars
is presided by Kartikeya, the general of the Devas (peace that comes
from keeping the mind anchored in the heart) in their battle with the
Asuras (lack of peace that comes from the mind being drawn outside
the heart). It is working with our mental concepts that allows us to

Developmental Qualities of the Planets

299

destroy the peace-robbing Asuras. Mars' influence in the horoscope
indicates those areas where our mental concepts cause us to think
something has to be a certain way. In thinking this we push to change
things, or become frustrated with the way things are when the are not
in accordance with our concepts. What must actually be done is to
understand how the mental concepts, about the things Mars is
influencing, create a lack of peace and harmony. The mental concepts
are not right or wrong, but holding ideas about something causes
frustration with what IS, if what IS is not in alignment with our ideas,
and this makes our happiness conditional. As a malefic, Mars
indicates where one has the potential to grow and thereby increase
their happiness.
Mercury, 4
Mercury is the 4th planet and presides over the element earth. The
reflection of the creative aspect is brought to some concrete
manifestation. Mercury is the son of the Moon, as such Mercury's
influence in the horoscope indicates what is brought into concrete
manifestation from the consciousness symbolized by the Moon. Two,
the number of the Moon, squared is Four, the number of Mercury.
The square of any number represents what that number will result in.
If Mercury becomes a malefic by joining a malefic, those things
that are manifested by him are also a cause of suffering.
Jupiter, 5
Jupiter is the 5th planet; Five is the midpoint of nine and
represents the reflection in creation of the Creator, as good and evil.
Jupiter, therefore, gives the knowledge of good and evil, and as a
benefic, the grace to choose the good. In the horoscope, Jupiter
always gives to luck, wisdom or fortune that helps the native end up
with the good part in any situation, rather than the destructive or
negative; due of this Jupiter is the great protector in the horoscope.
Jupiter is also responsible for showing the native their path through
the harrows of the world.

300

Vault of the Heavens

Venus, 6
Venus is the 6th planet. Six moves past the middle point of the
Five; good and evil is known at the Five, what to do with this is
indicated by Venus. Venus gives pragmatism and knowledge of how
to operate successfully in a world where there is good and evil. That
is why Venus gives diplomacy, the skill to deal with difficulty, or
conflict, with respect thereby maintaining the greater harmony.
Venus also gives the ability to choose what is most worthwhile.
Every decision has pros and cons, good aspects and bad aspects. Any
action taken will cost something, as long as we are willing to pay the
price it is OK. When Venus is well situated the native tends to
realistically view the price they pay for their actions and desires. Badly
influenced, Venus often causes a person to bite off more than they
can chew; or in fulfilling a desire there may be greater karmic
consequences than the desire is worth. Debilitated Venus is
particularly notorious for getting caught up in affairs that ultimately
have no value or worth.
Saturn, 7
Saturn is the 7th planet. Seven represents the effects of the creative
aspect manifesting the physical plane. The effect is essentially the idea
of separation; the creative aspect is not easily seen in the material
world. Saturn is presided by Brahma, the Creator, through his rulership of the nerves. The life force moving down and through the
spine into the nervous system gives shape to the world, it is
responsible for the consciousness of separation. All day long through
the agency of the nervous system we are telling ourselves, “this is
Mary, this is my house, this is a wall, etc.,” in essence all day long we
are telling ourselves, “this is not Spirit.” This separation causes one to
feel the need for something to complete oneself, but along with
feeling incomplete comes an insecurity that prevents a person from
healthily enjoying those things in which they may attempt to
compensate for the consciousness of separation. Saturn, therefore,
indicates those areas wherein the native feels a great deal of
separation, isolation, and lack which they hope to fill, but where there

Developmental Qualities of the Planets

301

is also a corresponding insecurity or psychological complex that
prevents them from experiencing happiness in those areas. What
needs to be done is that the native needs to seek internal fulfillment
to validate oneself, rather than to expect externals to overcome the
feeling of separation. As the native is able to do this, they become
more capable of enjoying the areas of life that Saturn is influencing,
therefore, Saturn is a delaying factor in the horoscope. Saturn is also
a separating factor, as it is through becoming separated from things
of value and suffering that the mind holds the idea of separation. As
one of the malefics, Saturn indicates where one has the potential to
grow and thereby increase their happiness.
Generally, the effect of this consciousness of separation is to
motivate a person to manifest something physically tangible and
secure to compensate for this. If Seven, the number of Saturn, is
squared, the result is 49. Reducing this (4 + 9 = 13 = 1+3 + 4)
results in Four, the number of Mercury, physical manifestation. This
indicates that the eventual result of Saturn is new physical
manifestation. Consider what happens when Four, the number of
Mercury, is squared: Four squared yields sixteen, reducing this (16 =
1 + 6 = 7) results in Seven, the number of Saturn. The result of
physical manifestation is again the consciousness of separation, and
unhappiness. This is similarly indicated by Mercury’s lordship of the
lungs, and the skin, where the nerves end. As long as the lungs are
active the life force is put into the nerves; that is why yogis strive for
a breathless state. Viewed this way it is no wonder why it is so
difficult to overcome the suffering and unhappiness indicated by
Saturn. How does one do this? Through Mercury, which Saturn
always brings one back to. Mercury is presided by Lord Vishnu, the
absolute aspect of God manifesting as the many things in the world.
Learning to see everything as an aspect of God overcomes the
consciousness of separation indicated by Saturn.
Rahu, 8 & Ketu, 9
Rahu is the 8th planet. Eight represents the need for creating
karmic balance. Developing this balance gives completion and

302

Vault of the Heavens

liberation, which is symbolized by Ketu the 9th planet. This is why
Rahu and Ketu are the different halves of the same creature. In fact,
after numerical addition Eight becomes Nine, the number of Ketu
(all the numbers in 8 are added: 1+ 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 + 7 + 8 = 36
= 3 + 6 = 9).
Ketu is the 9th planet. Nine represents completion and can
therefore give that which must be completed or take away that which
has been completed. The completion of karmas gives liberation,
therefore Ketu is the significator of liberation.
Much more is written regarding Rahu and Ketu in the chapter
allotted to them.
EFFECTS OF DEVELOPMENTAL QUALITIES
The core influence of a planet from a developmental point of
view is indicated by the developmental qualities given. The
developmental effects of a planet will be experienced in its house
position, as well as by the planets it aspects or joins.
Following is a summary of the developmental effects of the
planets upon a house or planet that they may be influencing:
Sun: A malefic that indicates the separation necessary to find oneself.
Moon: Provides growth due to what is strong in one’s consciousness.
Mars: A malefic that causes frustration due to the attachment to
one’s mental concepts of how something should, or should not be.
Mercury: Manifests due to one’s skills and intelligence.
Jupiter: Gives grace and wisdom that results in having the good
rather than the bad.
Venus: Gives the ability to accurately access the worth of anything
and thus make balanced choices in a world of consequence.
Saturn: Indicates the consciousness of separation from Spirit, and
the resulting lack, unhappiness and psychological complexes.
Rahu: Indicates separation due to lack of development in the past
and the need to create balance in areas of weakness. Rahu also
indicates a consciousness of separation similar to Saturn.

Developmental Qualities of the Planets

303

Ketu: Indicates completion; things are given that need to be
completed, and taken away when they are completed. Ketu also
indicates strong attachments to one’s mental concepts similar to
Mars. These are, however, mental concepts that the native is
becoming free from.
Affliction by Saturn or Rahu
If the following planets are joined or aspected by Saturn or Rahu,
the following will be the results on their developmental qualities:
Sun: Consciousness of separation from one’s self, resulting in poor
self-esteem.
Moon: The mind is separated from the peace found in the heart,
resulting in negative thinking, fear, and worries.
Mars: Consciousness of separation between the personal will and
God’s will, resulting in impatience and frustration.
Mercury: Consciousness of separation between one’s skills and
intelligence that one uses to bring things to fruition and the ongoing
manifestations of Spirit, resulting in one’s skills and intelligence
appearing much to meek to accomplish a given task which causes
stress in managing affairs and making concrete decisions.
Jupiter: Consciousness of separation from one’s path, resulting in
feelings of purposelessness and lack of meaning in life.
Venus: Inability to realistically evaluate the worth of a desire or
activity, resulting in making poor choices that one has to pay a high
price for in terms of time, energy, money or negative karmic
paybacks.
Saturn: Greater insecurities, and a more powerful consciousness of
separation.
Rahu: Greater need to create a karmic balance.
Ketu: Very strong attachment to one’s mental concepts as only they
are seen as capable of providing security and well-being. Tendency to
want one’s ideas to be authoritative. Great difficulties are necessary
to be worked out where Ketu is.

304

Vault of the Heavens

The results are similar when the planet is debilitated.
Affliction by Mars or Ketu
If Mars or Ketu afflicts the following planets, the following will be
the results on their developmental qualities:
Sun: Frustration with oneself due to one not being in accordance
with one’s thoughts and ideas of how one should or should not be.
Ketu indicates self-doubts as a result of this.
Moon: Outlook strongly conditioned by one’s thoughts and ideas of
how things should and should not be. This results in lack of peace
and mental frustration.
Mars: Stronger attachment to one’s thoughts and ideas of how things
should and should not be. They are, however, introverted and are no
longer seen as viable, therefore there is greater capacity to become
free from them.
Mercury: One’s capacity for balanced management and
communication is hampered by should and should not, this results in
frustration and arguments.
Jupiter: Strong idealism or beliefs in accordance with one’s thoughts
and ideas of how things should and should not that may lack
flexibility and acceptance. One’s capacity for faith is also reduced as
faith is that which comes from intuitive knowledge, not from the
knowledge that one has seen work in the past, which is sure to fail
sometime in the future. Ketu’s influence, however, deepens one’s
belief and faith, though the native is sure to suffer on account of not
being able to hold up to their ideals at some time.
Venus: Push into things that may not have a lasting value, or which
value may not be well worth the effort. Lack of diplomacy due to not
appreciating the value of others’ ideas. These are especially so with
regards to Mars’ affliction. Ketu indicates a more mature influence, a
controlled extroversion of one’s desires, and skill in diplomacy that
comes from hiding one’s strong opinions instead of pushing them.
Saturn: One’s security is conditioned by the necessity for one’s ideas
and concepts to be considered as authoritative.

Developmental Qualities of the Planets

305

Rahu: Tendency to force one’s thoughts and ideas of how things
should and should not upon unfamiliar areas where the native has
difficulties, and really does not know what they are doing or how to
go about it in a harmonious fashion. This results in great conflict and
possibly violence.
Ketu: Indicates very strong attachments to one’s thoughts and ideas
of how things should and should not be. Even if these are realized
the native is frustrated or discontented because they do not bring the
expected happiness.
Influence of Benefics
If the planets are influenced by benefics the following will be the
results on their developmental qualities:
Sun: Confidence, and steadfastness.
Moon: Positive outlook on life and a good attitude.
Mars: Flexibility, acceptance, and diplomacy with respect to the
native’s thoughts and ideas of what should and shouldn’t be, resulting
in less frustration and no animosity with others. Balanced use of will
and energy.
Mercury: Practical utilization of skills and intelligence to build a
good and secure life.
Jupiter: Open-minded philosophy, balanced faith, and flexibility in
judgments.
Venus: Capacity to make balanced evaluations about the proper
worth of something thereby never paying more for something than it
is worth. Diplomacy and manner help one progress in life.
Saturn: Lesser suffering in life due to there being a lesser
consciousness of separation and greater innate security.
Rahu: Greater skill in learning lessons in the areas where the native is
weak and in need of development. Jupiter is the greatest helpful
influence on Rahu, especially his aspect. Mercury is helpful as well,
but not as helpful as Jupiter because only wisdom and grace can
completely alleviate Rahu.

306

Vault of the Heavens

Ketu: Greater contentment, less need to struggle for a deep inner
security. Balanced capacity for introversion and contemplation that is
free from frustration and turmoil.
The results are similar when a planet is exalted.

Saturn

307

27
Saturn
Saturn indicates where the native experiences a consciousness of
separation between their personal consciousness and the Spiritual
consciousness. This results in all unhappy feelings of lack, emptiness,
frustration, rejection, need, etc. If an individual approaches
something in life with a consciousness of separation they will never
acquire the peace and happiness they expect. For instance, if an
individual has low self-esteem, the result of having a consciousness of
separation from their spiritual identity, no matter the power they
gain, they will still feel weak. Saturn’s placement in a rasi indicates the
specific type of separation that the native experiences in their
consciousness.
The consciousness of separation is experienced as an attitude of
lack or weakness. The lack or weakness generally motivates the
individual to make compensatory efforts with the hope of
overcoming the feelings of lack or weakness and the resulting
unhappiness. These compensations are made unconsciously, directed
outwards, and never result in the expected or hoped for happiness.
Since the native approaches the compensatory activities with the
consciousness of separation, there can be no fulfillment. Only after
the consciousness of separation is overcome can the individual find
the happiness and well being they strive for.
The compensatory measures never provide happiness. Instead
they have one of two, or both of the following results. One, the
individual may turn to activities that help them overcome the
consciousness of separation, such as meditation, reading of
scriptures, or other methods of self-betterment, if such indications
are present in the horoscope. Or two, they go into a break down
stage, which lasts until they somehow get a realization that helps to
overcome the consciousness of separation to some extent. This
breakdown stage usually occurs in the periods of Saturn.

308

Vault of the Heavens

The breakdown stage is one of severe unhappiness, frustration
and, or resignation that is the result of being confronted with
impossible odds in acquiring happiness. The odds are impossible
because trying to compensate for a lack within by external activity is
bound to fail.
Dependent upon the rasi that Saturn falls in the native suffers a
specific type of separation in their consciousness, which leads to
specific compensatory attitudes and activities. The compensatory
attitudes and activities result not in happiness but instead in a
breakdown where no productive activity is apparent or performed.
Opposite rasis have the same breakdown stage; the opposites taken
to their furthest degree of weakness are the same. (On the other
hand, opposites taken to their furthest degree of health are also the
same).
The following list provides the attitude, or complex, that is the
result of the consciousness of separation indicated by Saturn’s
placement, as well as the tendency towards compensation and the
resulting unhealthy activities that take place in the breakdown stage.
Aries
Attitude/Complex: Personally insecure in activities and success.
Compensation: Overly dutiful, desire to prove one’s capacity for
success and activities.
Libra
Attitude/Complex: Feels unloved, or abandoned.
Compensation: Does not need anyone, becomes reserved, cold,
and/or proud.
Aries/Libra Breakdown: Becomes critical and intolerant. The
native does not feel better about himself and this gets projected onto
others. Criticizing others is an unconscious attempt to make oneself
better.

Saturn

309

Taurus
Attitude/Complex: Lack of personal security or self-worth.
Inability to recognize one’s inherent value with associated
feelings of guilt for what one receives.
Compensation: Becomes attached to external forms of value
with the unconscious hope of feeling valuable, or renounces
external valuables in order to make a statement that value means
nothing.
Scorpio
Attitude/Complex: Lack of emotional security results in fear of
the unknown, or unfounded worries.
Compensation: Hides pain and stress, difficulty with intimacy,
closed emotionally, and may turn to addictions.
Taurus/Scorpio Breakdown: Becomes resentful, and jealous of
others’ security, and/or apathetic and resigned to their poor fate.
Gemini
Attitude/Complex: Lack of inner validation of one’s
intelligence, knowledge, and communication resulting in
intellectual insecurity, indecisiveness, and not feeling understood.
Compensation: Over-analyzes, over-studies, and over-explains;
all resulting in the mind being over active and unable to settle.
Sagittarius
Attitude/Complex: Experiences lack of purpose or meaning in
life.
Compensation: Over enthusiastic or fanatical in that which they
believe will give meaning to life due to the belief that they have
found what grand thing they are meant to do.
Gemini/Sagittarius Breakdown: Gives up on planning, making
decisions, or on living life, and instead dwells on the past, which was
better, happier, etc.
Cancer
Attitude/Complex: Emptiness, the mind is separated from the
joy found in the heart, resulting in moodiness and depression.

310

Vault of the Heavens

Compensation: Needs and worries projected onto others.
Capricorn
Attitude/Complex: Fearful about life and the many known
difficulties and sufferings that could possibly befall one.
Compensation: Self-centered control with the hope of
preventing the realization of their fears.
Cancer/Capricorn Breakdown: Utter dejection and unhappiness.
Leo
Attitude/Complex: Lack of self-esteem.
Compensation: Arrogant display, demands respect and full of
self-importance.
Aquarius
Attitude/Complex: Insecure with individuality
Compensation: “Groupie” or rebels from peers. Often personal
rigidity and self-denial in extreme efforts to make oneself OK.
Leo/Aquarius Breakdown: Hatred, inability to feel love, possibly
resulting in isolation.
Virgo
Attitude/Complex: Feels stuck in “the rut.”
Compensation: Makes required effort but is fatigued, drained,
and unenthusiastic.
Pisces
Attitude/Complex: Uncertainty with life, indecision with what
to hold onto and what to let go off, what to move forward with
and what to leave, results in fluctuating indecision.
Compensation: Escapism, denial of what needs to be done.
Virgo/Pisces Breakdown: Lack of faith that circumstances can
improve, resulting in lethargy.
It will be noted that for Virgo and Pisces their compensation
mechanism is not one of trying to acquire validation, as it is for the
other rasis.

Saturn

311

Depending upon the maturity of the native, the degree that they
go into the compensation and breakdown stages will differ. Very
mature individuals will only suffer the attitude/complex at times and
may in fact never go into the compensation or breakdown stages.
However, it is usually seen that when an individual is in the period of
Saturn they find themselves in the breakdown stage, or at the very
least in a compensatory mode. Only the very mature natives do not
find themselves in a compensatory mode when the periods of Saturn
run.
The effects of Saturn’s navamsa position are similar and just as
significant.
SATURN IN THE HOUSES
These results attributed to Saturn in the rasis hold completely true
with respect to Saturn in the houses. The results of Aries apply to
Saturn in the 1st house; the results of Taurus apply to the 2nd house,
etc. The indications of Saturn in the houses, however, are not as
significant as those of Saturn in the rasis. Saturn’s effects of
experiencing a consciousness of separation as indicated by his house
position are more superficial than are his effects in the rasis. It will
often times be noted that a relatively mature native will suffer no
effects of the type mentioned due to his house position, but still
suffer effects due to his rasi position. The effects due to his house
position are worked out before the effects of his rasi position.
OVERCOMING THE DIFFICULTIES OF SATURN
Developing those houses Saturn rules, as counted from Saturn’s
rasi placement, overcomes the difficulties of Saturn and puts Saturn
to best use. For instance, Saturn in Taurus must develop purpose and
meaning- 9th house, in their actions- 10th house, in order to overcome
the lack of self-worth indicated by Saturn in Taurus or the 2nd house.
This same principle reveals the best use of any planet in any rasi.
Simply see what houses the planet rules from its position. This is a
special principle that reveals the meaning of the planets in the rasis.

312

Vault of the Heavens

SATURN’S INFLUENCE ON PLANETS
Saturn’s influence on a planet is similar to that of the rasi that the
planet rules. Saturn’s aspect or conjunction to the Moon is similar to
Cancer; to Jupiter is similar to Sagittarius, etc. There are, however, a
few additional noteworthy effects for some of the planets:
The Moon: Mental worries, and negative thinking that is the result
of the mind being separated from the heart.
Mars: Impatience that is the result of the consciousness of separation
between one’s personal will and God’s will, which results in an
attitude that things will not get done on time.
Mercury: Inability to prioritize and manage one’s duties and tasks
leads to high stress. The debilitation of Mercury has a similar effect.
Venus: Difficulty in getting over changes and letting go of things
that are no longer.
RAHU GIVES THE RESULTS OF SATURN
Rahu is the other planet that indicates a consciousness of
separation similar to Saturn. All that has been stated for Saturn in the
rasis, in the houses and influencing planets similarly applies to Rahu.
Rahu’s own rasi is Aquarius; therefore, the number of houses that
Aquarius is away from Rahu’s rasi indicates what must be developed
in order to overcome the difficulties of Rahu.
COMBUST MOON
The combust Moon has a similar influence of indicating a
consciousness of separation in respect to the rasi and house in which
it is placed and the planets it influences.

Rahu and Ketu

313

28
Rahu and Ketu
Rahu and Ketu are the points of intersection of the Earth’s course
around the Sun with the Moon’s course around the Earth. The Sun is
soul, the Moon is mind, the Earth- the created world. Rahu and Ketu
indicate the effect upon the mind and soul due to consciousness
manifesting the created world. The soul remains ever pure, but its
reflection, the mind, becomes discontented or shattered, longings
arise, fears invade, and in general all deeper needs remain unfulfilled
by the world. The native is never satisfied in the areas that Rahu and
Ketu effect, there will always be something missing, this something
else must be found through spiritual means. Rahu and Ketu cause
eclipses, the darkness of the soul. Looking through this darkness and
seeking Spirit, rather than playing in the darkness, gives the desired
peace and joy.
Rahu and Ketu are the factors that indicate the involution of
consciousness. Involution of consciousness is the return of one’s
individual consciousness to the One consciousness. For this to
happen there must be the completion of all outward or evolutionary
forces. Both Rahu and Ketu have as their goals this involution that
requires completion. Though they have the same goal, their activities
appear to be at odds. Ketu is a very introverted force, and gives
completion and liberation. The karmas of those things that Ketu is
influencing are being completed in this lifetime, and anything that
Ketu is influencing has a note of completion and resolution.
Rahu on the other hand, drags one into new things, so it appears
to be doing the opposite of Ketu, but in fact it drags one into new
things in order to create balance where there is imbalance, for as long
as there is imbalance there can be no completion. Even though Rahu
is initiating new things into the life, it does so only to create balance
where there is imbalance, and not for any reason of those things.

314

Vault of the Heavens

The balance Rahu forces one to create is in those areas that are
underdeveloped as a result of focusing in recent past lives on those
areas Ketu is influencing. Since the areas affected by Rahu are out of
balance, and weakly developed, there is generally not a great deal of
necessary karma to sustain those things that Rahu brings into the life,
separation is the result. There is also a lack of knowledge, and the
native is “green,” or inexperienced, these also contribute to
separation.
Rahu and Ketu are always opposite each other. Remember the law
of opposites? The law of opposites holds that opposites are the same
when taken to their furthest extreme. Rahu and Ketu are therefore
the same; Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra states that “Ketu is akin to
Rahu.” Therefore, if the area influenced by Rahu is underdeveloped
then in fact the area influenced by Ketu is only developed from one
point of view, and not in a balanced fashion. Without a balanced
development there can be no fulfillment, nor truly spiritual
consciousness.
While Ketu is overly premeditative and self-controlled, sometimes
to the point of implosion, Rahu is lacking discrimination, and
chaotic, lacking any control. Rahu creates the chaos that forces Ketu
to let go of control and develop flexibility, surrender, and detachment
instead. The more controlled Ketu, the more chaotic will be Rahu.
Ketu gives doubts, and causes one to abstain from action until the
area of Rahu becomes developed.
Ketu’s placement also indicates areas where the native has strong
ideas of should and should not, and the ability to live in accordance
with these ideas. Where Rahu is placed the native has unclear or
unrealistic ideas and a lack of ability to live in accordance with any
preconceived ideas. Rahu, therefore, serves to cause chaos and
instability that serves to free the native from the strong ideas
indicated by Ketu and make it impossible for them to live life in
accordance with their ideas of should and should not, which if
maintained would result in unbalanced development.
Both Rahu and Ketu create the need for spiritual comfort, and
push one forward, by creating one of three things:

Rahu and Ketu

315

1. Compulsions.
2. Discontent.
3. Radical and uncontrollable changes.
These three things manifest as a forth thing:
4. Transformation in the spiritual man, or destruction in the nonspiritual.
The compulsions pull the native into those things required to
create balance. The discontent motivates a searching. The radical
changes bring to the surface the true individuality of the native, and
also free them from attachments that would be binding.
More specifically Ketu creates compulsions that destroy or free
the native from things. Rahu creates compulsions that pull one into
things that they have little knowledge or skill in, and where they are
therefore bound to suffer difficulty. Ketu creates discontent due to
the old and the familiar. Rahu creates discontent due to the
impossibility of anything being as good as the wish; dreams are
always better than reality, until of course the world is seen as a dream.
Rahu creates radical changes that force one to rely on or accept
something unfamiliar. Ketu creates radical change to liberate one
from attachments, or those things that are completed and therefore
have no more purpose in the native’s development.
The transformations serve to change the individual’s attitude
about something that seems impossible by forcing them to look at it
from a higher perspective where it becomes possible. It is this
transformation that is most important. Rahu forces the native to have
breakthroughs that result in understanding, where there was
confusion. Ketu transforms things by forcing the native to let go of
the ego’s attachments, allowing them to see things from a higher
perspective.
The three forces of Rahu and Ketu- compulsions, discontent, and
radical change plague every man. If the individual handles these three
with a spiritual consciousness of growth and expansion, then

316

Vault of the Heavens

transformation occurs. If the individual is unable to do this then
these serve to destroy the happiness in his life.
There is no simple way to tell from Rahu and Ketu how the native
will handle the difficulties they represent. Spiritual and attitude
factors in the horoscope are more important for determining this.
Though, Mercury’s and particularly Jupiter’s aspect is very helpful.
But the painful influences of Rahu and Ketu are the same whether in
the horoscope of an actively spiritual man, or in the horoscope of
one bound in ignorance.
RAHU AND KETU IN THE HOUSES AND RASIS
The house and rasi wherein Ketu is located indicate those areas of
life, and the manner through which the native has attempted to find
security in recent past lives. Due to this the native will have
corresponding attachments to their ideas about these areas. These
concepts are in need of review, and the native is in need of freeing
themselves from these concepts. It is these areas where the native is
most significantly completing the effects of their previous karmas.
These areas, though well developed in the past, are currently causing
discontent or a lack of forward momentum.
The opposite rasi and house wherein Rahu is located indicates
those areas of life where the native is undeveloped and weak. These
areas bring to the native’s attention the fact that their ideas about
creating security as indicated by Ketu’s placement are not completely
effective. The areas indicated by Rahu’s placement are in need of
development. Developing these areas creates balance where there is
imbalance. Once this balance is obtained the native becomes
completely free from the results of the karmas indicated by Ketu's
position.
The effects of Rahu or Ketu in a rasi or the correlative house are
similar. Meaning that the effects of Rahu in Aries are similar to that
of Rahu in the first house, and so on. The house position, however,
indicates in what area Rahu or Ketu are having their evolutionary
effects, while the rasi position indicates more in what manner they are
doing so. The influence of the house is of more immediate concern

Rahu and Ketu

317

to the native; however, the influence of the rasi is a more core
influence. For instance, if Ketu is in Gemini, the native has a core
quality of doing things in an intellectual manner. If Ketu were in the
2nd house, they would exhibit this quality of intellectuality particularly
in matters concerning their wealth and resources, which would be
immediate concerns this lifetime. The necessary development
indicated by the houses that Rahu and Ketu are in are completed
before the necessary development indicated by the rasis they are in
are completed; the rasis indicates the deeper influences.
RAHU AND KETU IN THE HOUSES
Some general rules for Rahu and Ketu in the houses:
1. Ketu in the dharma houses (houses of self, the 1st, 5th, and 9th)
and Rahu in the kama houses (the social houses, 7th, 11th, and 3rd)
indicates that the native is coming from a karmic background of
greater self-development. In this lifetime there is a need for social
development. Social development is the self-development that
happens through the reflection of others.
2. Ketu in the artha houses (houses of material well-being, the 2nd,
6th, and 10th) and Rahu in the moksha houses (houses of
emotional and spiritual contentment, the 8th, 4th, and 12th)
indicates that the native is coming from a karmic background of
developing security through practical concerns. In this lifetime
there is a need to develop more inner strength. There is generally
a tendency towards emotionally centered addictions when Rahu
is in a moksha house, especially the 4th or 8th.
3. Ketu in the kama houses (the social houses, 7th, 11th, and 3rd) and
Rahu in the dharma houses (houses of self, the 1st, 5th, and 9th)
indicates that the native is coming from a karmic background of
social development and is in need of cultivating self
development. When Rahu is in a dharma house, depression is the
result of the native not being able to visualize that which they
hope to achieve.
4. Ketu in the moksha houses (houses of emotional and spiritual
contentment, the 8th, 4th, and 12th) and Rahu in the artha houses

318

Vault of the Heavens

(houses of material well-being, the 2nd, 6th, and 10th) indicates that
the native is coming from a karmic background of developing
security that is not based on concrete activities. The native is now
in need of performing concrete works. The 4th and 8th houses
may indicate family dependence and security, the 4th family and
the 8th spousal security. Just because Ketu is in a moksha house
does not mean that the native has been making effort towards
spiritual liberation, it only means they have been free of material
concerns, this may be done in many ways, not all of them healthy.
5. Anytime Rahu and Ketu are in the angles there is a need for the
native to develop a proper balance between their masculine and
feminine natures. Men will therefore have some weakness in their
masculinity, and woman will have some weakness in their
femininity. These weaknesses may manifest as abusive strengths
due to the native attempting to compensate for their weaknesses.
This has a particular effect in relationships; as a result married life
is generally not happy when Rahu and Ketu are in the angles until
the native learns the proper use of use of their masculine and
feminine natures.
Ketu in the 1st House, Rahu in the 7th House
Ketu in the 1st house indicates a native who in recent past lives
has gone at things alone and thereby felt secure in knowing that they
can handle themselves through any situation. Rahu's placement in the
7th house indicates that in this life the native is in need of learning
how to be as efficient and capable in a partnership. These natives
generally feel quite confident and capable by themselves, but in
partnerships of any sort they tend to experience a lot of doubt and
insecurity. In fact, around others they tend to feel very insecure and
threatened, they often feel that their every move is being watched
and analyzed, though it is really they themselves that are watching
their and others’ every move with the intense analysis of Ketu. This
sometimes leaves them feeling naked, or as if they are in an alien
civilization trying to find a niche for themselves, unsure if they will be
welcomed or not. All these concerns are the result of an intense self-

Rahu and Ketu

319

focus that causes the native to be aware and hypersensitive of every
aspect of themselves, as well as creating a great need for perfection in
all their actions. This need for perfection gives doubts of how to
behave and act, as well as a self-critical nature that is only aware of
how far they are from perfection in their actions, rather than how
good they do, even if others congratulate and validate them for their
performances. Until the native has detached from the role of his
personality these self-doubts will pain him. Once he learns that
perfection is a perfect harmony of his karmas, his merits, others’
karmas, others’ merits and grace, and that that is all that can ever
happen, no better or no worse, then he can be content with his
actions and behavior.
Ketu's placement indicates the native having spent more time in
the past lives in self-development at the expense of social
development. In this lifetime, Rahu makes partnerships more difficult
and more draining. There is generally a need to learn what is right for
the native in a partner, as well as how to go about maintaining a
relationship. Generally a relationship is more demanding upon the
native than they would desire. This is due to them having difficulty
being themselves in the relationship and instead taking on extra
burdens of the partner, or because it is necessary for them to learn to
include the other as a larger part of themselves. Ketu also makes the
native very self-controlled, and also one who hides his weakness or
insecurities. Their partners, therefore, tend to go to the opposite and
be very uncontrolled, more chaotic individuals, as indicated by Rahu.
The native has to learn that as long as they are overly controlled, and
hidden, their partners will be very unbalanced and overly expressive.
As the native learns to feel more secure with themselves around
others and allow their personalities to flow naturally, their partners
will be more balanced and they will be able to have more productive
relationships.
Ketu in the 2nd House, Rahu in the 8th House
Ketu in the 2nd house indicates a native who is strongly of the
thought that they will be safe and secure so long as they are capable

320

Vault of the Heavens

of creating security for themselves through their own resources or
resourcefulness. There is a strong tendency to maintain selfsufficiency. This self-sufficiency may come from money, knowledge
or skills. If it is knowledge, then the native will desire to gain all the
knowledge they can about those things they are involved in. That way
they feel that whatever happens they can handle it and they therefore
feel secure. Rahu's placement in the 8th house, however, causes crisis
in their lives that force them to benefit from others’ resources.
Others’ resources being not only wealth, but skills or knowledge as
well. When crisis come there is great hesitation and fear towards
benefiting from other's resources. These events, however, help them
to break free from their attachment to their own self-sufficiency and
to realize that if they are unable to freely benefit from others’
resources then they themselves limit their resourcefulness, as others’
resources are really just an extension of their own.
Another manifestation of Ketu in the 2nd is that the native is
generally quite skilled, but the placement of Rahu in the 8th makes it
difficult for them to develop others’ skills and resourcefulness. If the
native has a skill or resource that can benefit another, they will easily
take care of the other's concerns. What is important for them to
learn, however, is to teach others to develop their resources, so rather
then do it for the person they need to learn how to show others to do
it for themselves. This may be very frustrating to the native since they
can do it more simply and efficiently than they can demonstrate it to
the other.
In regards to relationships, this nodal position has some important
needed areas of development, and that is in the area of trust. Rahu in
the 8th tends to cause some fear of bonding in a relationship as the
native’s trust in others is generally not well developed. It is usually, in
fact, even discouraged through painful events in their lives. The
native needs to learn that if they are unable to trust others it is
because the really do not trust that they themselves can handle all
things. Once they are able to trust others, then they will really be
secure in the knowledge that they can take care of themselves. It is

Rahu and Ketu

321

this strengthening inner security that is needed when Rahu is in the
8th.
Rahu's placement in the 8th also indicates that the native is in need
of learning to determine the value of a relationship, and what it
consists of. Not realizing this will create a relationship between two
people that has no mutual focus upon what the relationship should
provide. Recognizing the worth and value of a relationship is
important for the longevity of the relationship, not having that, Rahu
will end the relationship.
Ketu in the 3rd House, Rahu in the 9th House
Ketu in the 3rd indicates that the native in recent past lives has
created security through the use of their rational mind. Through
experimentation, study and thought the native has managed to create
a paradigm that allows for life to take place in a safe and secure
manner. In this lifetime, Ketu causes one to experience doubts about
what exactly they know. When confronted by information that is
contrary to what they believe they know there is initial resistance, as
new information is threatening to the paradigm that is responsible for
their security. After some time to think, however, they experience
doubts about their knowledge and understanding. These doubts
create an identity crisis over what they know. The eventual result of
this is a deepening of their knowledge, but also the understanding
that they have learned so much that all they know for sure is that they
do not know anything.
Rahu in the 9th indicates that the native must define a belief
system or philosophy that takes care of those areas they are unable to
understand or create rationality for. The doubting of their
information, through Ketu, forces them to develop faith and
intuition through Rahu. The doubting of information indicated by
Ketu in the 3rd also gives way for them to accept the information
given by others, or teachers, indicated by Rahu in the 9th. However,
as long as the native doubts their own information there will be a
corresponding doubt of others’ information as well. The key is do
develop the faith and belief that at any given moment, though they

322

Vault of the Heavens

will never know everything, that they will know what they need to
fulfill their role at that time. Essentially, Rahu in the 9th indicates a
need to broaden one's understanding beyond the mere intellect.
Ketu in the 3rd also suffers from indecisiveness. This is a result of
Ketu waiting for that last bit of information to close the case, but the
last bit never comes, there is always room for doubt, in fact it is the
nature of the intellectual mind to doubt. In the end the native must
learn to act on faith, the need for which is indicated by Rahu in the
9th.
Ketu in the 3rd also indicates that through the native exercising
will and strength they have made things happen. Ketu now gives
some doubts about how to focus their will, or what to focus it on,
though there is a sense of adventure and impulse. Rahu in the 9th
indicates the need for the native to focus their energy towards
something of purpose; without some sense of purpose they will not
make the most of their energies and skills.
Ketu in the 4th House, Rahu in the 10th House
Ketu in the 4th indicates that the native in recent past lives has
created security by stabilizing, or controlling their emotions and
reactions to the events in life. As the result, the native appears strong
internally. The native will generally have more success in creating
security by going inward than to tackle things externally. There is a
tendency to over-control the feelings and reactions, which may cause
eruptions or moods to be triggered when the native can no longer
take it. It is because the emotions are controlled, rather than enjoyed
with detachment that these moods occur. The native needs to learn
to allow the emotions to flow freely, to let the feelings to feel what
they may, without any fear of the pain that may be involved with this.
The more the emotions and one's reactions are controlled by the
native’s thoughts about how they should feel, the more out of control
and chaotic the external environment will be.
Rahu’s placement in the 10th indicates this chaotic outer
environment and instability. Through Rahu in the 10th the native
learns to bring about a balance in their outer activities that reflects a

Rahu and Ketu

323

balanced inner life. A controlled inner life, the security indicated by
Ketu in the 4th, is not a balanced inner life, and the imbalances will be
revealed by external factors being unstable through Rahu in the 10th.
Ketu in the 4th also indicates strong feelings about the things that
are important to the native. Rahu in the 10th gives an ambition to
make things happen with those things that the native feels so strongly
about, and an outlet for doing so as well.
Ketu in the 5th House, Rahu in the 11th House
Ketu in the 5th indicates a native who in recent past lives has
creatively manifested their own destiny, meaning that they have
followed their own inspirations. This gives a intelligent, developed
and talented mind. In this lifetime Ketu in the 5th house experiences
discontent with creating for oneself, and a desire manifests, through
Rahu, to create something that results in the native being validated by
their peers.
Rahu in the 11th indicates that the native’s individuality feels
insecure when confronted by their peers and that there is a lack of
being validated by others. This results in the natives doubting their
own self, intelligence, and creative expression as indicated by Ketu’s
placement in the 5th. Rahu indicates the need for the native to be
secure with what he is in an environment where others have
similarities and differences, which can only be done once they are
completely secure with themselves.
Ketu in the 5th indicates that the native has been more concerned
with following their inspirations for the sake of the joy that comes
from creating what one is inspired towards. Rahu in the 11th gives the
gains that come from this. Krishna states that by following one's
svadharma one becomes prosperous. It is the 5th house that gives the
inspiration through which we find our svadharma and it is Rahu in
the 11th that gives the gains of doing so.
Ketu in the 6th House, Rahu in the 12th House
Ketu in the 6th indicates a native who believes that happiness and
security can come from overcoming the difficulties the world offers

324

Vault of the Heavens

through effort and human intelligence, and that worthy success
comes from making appropriate efforts. Rahu in the 12th house
breeds a growing discontent with all worldly activity and the desire to
become free from duties and works. This is a result of not gaining the
expected happiness through the efforts indicated by Ketu.
Rahu indicates that the native is becoming free of their works and
material concerns and desires freedom from worldly struggles. For
this to happen work must be completed as indicated by Ketu’s
placement in the 6th house, and the native must become free from
the attachment of how their efforts may improve their life. Ideally
this produces a karma yogi; the native does his work with
detachment, with no thoughts for the fruits, but performs his
activities so that he may become free from them. If the native does
not look upon their duties in a manner similar to this, then eventually
discontent will set in and escapist activities will be pursued. These
escapist activities are generally the pursuit of addictions, sex, or
excessive expense.
Ketu in the 7th House, Rahu in the 1st House
Ketu in the 7th house indicates a native who in recent past lives
has gained security through relationships or public relations of some
sort. There is generally a tendency to feel dependent upon others and
a tendency to wrap their identity up with their spouse. Rahu in the 1st
house indicates in this life the need to grow as an individual without
the influence of their spouse or the public. There are generally
feelings of loneliness and isolation and as long as the native is not
secure in himself or herself they generally feel some insecurities
around others. This will be the case until they develop a stronger
sense of self.
Rahu in the 1st indicates a great need to find one’s true
individuality. This generally occurs through unexpected or unusual
occurrences; the native rarely lives what would be termed a normal
life, the influence of Rahu as an outcaste. The native’s actions are
generally compulsive and may not necessarily appear balanced, but
these actions are necessary for them to eventually find themselves.

Rahu and Ketu

325

They are strongly attracted to those people and things that they
identify with as they search for the missing parts of themselves. They
attempt to absorb whatever it is they are attracted to completely and
fully, but then a time comes when they realize that this does not
fulfill them and then they generally suffer some identity crisis. The
result of this crisis is either to find something else that they can
compulsively pursue, or if they are of the wiser sort, to realize that
they themselves must fulfill themselves.
In relationships natives with Rahu in the 1st house generally find
themselves feeling lonelier than they expected or desire, but this just
another factor that forces them to attempt to realize themselves.
Ultimately these natives must understand that everything they are
chasing or longing after is just a part of themselves they see reflected
in the other.
Ketu in the 7th house indicates that the native must also complete
significant activities with partners and relationships. These
partnerships and relationships will not be capable of providing the
security and happiness the native seeks beyond a certain point. At
which point, if they have not developed a balanced sense of self, the
relationship will come to a close. In any case there is a theme of
completion in relationships when Ketu is in the 7th house, whether
the completion will be beautiful or horrible, or after a long time or a
short time, depends on influencing factors.
Ketu in the 8th House, Rahu in the 2nd House
Ketu in the 8th house indicates a native, who in recent past lives,
has benefited largely from other peoples resources, generally through
marriage partners, but sometimes through business partners. Rahu in
the 2nd house now indicates the need for the native to develop his or
her own resources. The result of this nodal placement is that the
native is insecure with their financial potential and it generally takes
them some time to make any savings.
The result of having been dependent upon others’ resources is a
strong need for the native to find value within themselves, as having
been dependent they have not felt as valuable since their physical

326

Vault of the Heavens

productivity would not have been high. The necessary development
of Rahu in the 2nd house, therefore, is for the native to recognize
their inherent value. Usually this is projected outwards, onto their
possessions, family, etc., which in the end will desert them or become
lost or defective. The native’s only option becomes to look inside for
their inherent worth after all external factors have failed. It is only in
rare cases that the native’s material projections are realized. In those
cases these material realizations are a reflection of recognizing their
inherent value.
The 2nd house, being the house of the family, is the house of
inherent value, the value that comes from our family, name, etc. This
being good gives a sense of self-worth and integrity, if otherwise the
native must struggle to validate herself. Often, there is trouble with
the family the native grows up in that results in the native feeling
devalued. The native may also become fanatical about their family
they themselves have created in an effort to validate themselves, in
which case Rahu will eventually separate them from their family.
Ketu in the 9th House, Rahu in the 3rd House
Ketu in the 9th indicates that the native in recent past lives
created security through faith in their belief system. There has also
generally been a focus on teaching what one believes. Rahu in the 3rd
indicates that they must now test their beliefs through trial and error,
to find out what really works for them, as well as displaying their
skills, knowledge and talents through active participation rather than
through teaching. Rahu here usually indicates a skilled personality
and one who is quite focused and directed with the use of their skills,
strength and energy.
Ketu in the 9th also indicates that the native has been quite broad
in his approach to life and his understanding. Rahu in the 3rd
indicates a need to focus on what is of greatest concern, to narrow
their approach so that they can effectively complete what is of
greatest importance to them.

Rahu and Ketu

327

Ketu in the 10th House, Rahu in the 4th House
Ketu in the 10th indicates that the native in recent past lives has
developed security through their ability to manage outer conditions
or through obtaining status of some sort. In this lifetime external
forms of security will not be as fulfilling, and those things that
provide external security will be short lived.
Rahu in the 4th creates upsets and instability in life that scars the
very core of the native. There is great fear, instability, and emotional
weakness. The native now needs to develop their inner security.
Ketu in the 10th house also indicates attachment to one's karmas,
with those actions they perform. In recent lives these actions gave a
degree of security, in this life they utterly fail and the native has no
choice but to develop their inner security, the need for which is
indicated by Rahu in the 4th house.
Ketu in the 11th House, Rahu in the 5th House
Ketu in the 11th house indicates that the native has experienced
happiness through fulfilling their goals and realizing their desires.
There has generally been an excess of external living as well as
dependence upon peers of like-minded individuals to provide
security. In this lifetime Ketu gives a growing discontent with these
things and a tendency to get involved with groups that do not
provide the expected happiness, which leaves the native less
enthusiastic about their involvement.
Rahu in the 5th house indicates mental disquiet and the need for
the native to focus on what they, themselves, are inspired towards.
Generally, the native has some confusion about what they are
inspired towards, and the result is generally a discontented mentality.
If Rahu is causing a raja yoga, however, the native may be incredibly
focused and creative. There is particularly a need for the native to
validate themselves for their activities and to express what they are
inspired to express for its own sake rather than for the sake of
acceptance or validation by others. Rahu here often forces this by
creating a loss of dignity.

328

Vault of the Heavens

Ketu in the 12th House, Rahu in the 6th House
Ketu in the 12th house indicates a native who in recent past lives
has not involved themselves with the many concerns of the world.
This may have been done through spiritual and transcendental
practices, or it may have been done through other, less healthy,
activities, escapism, or even imprisonment. Planets influencing Ketu
as well as the placement of Ketu's lord will indicate this. In any case,
there has been a focus on attempting to become free from worldly
karmas, either by somehow, ignorantly, not doing work, or through
spiritual practices.
Rahu in the 6th indicates the need to perform the works necessary
to be free from all works. The native must perform the activities
necessary to improve and manage their material affairs. These
activities are necessary to give the completion that Ketu desires. It is
important that the native works in a spirit of karma yoga, that human
right is for activity, not the results of their activities, else the native
suffers from further binding attachments, which hinder the
realization of Ketu's goals of completion, resolution and
transcendence.
RAHU AND KETU IN THE RASIS
Ketu in Aries, Rahu in Libra
Ketu in Aries indicates that the native in recent past lives has
created his security through personal initiative, strength, and will.
Much of this was done with only the goal in sight, the consequences,
or price was generally not considered. In this lifetime the native will
experience doubts that serve to curb their impulsiveness. Also in this
lifetime events will transpire that force the native into situations that
require courage and strength to fulfill a goal that has a high price, a
price that may be higher than the native may want to pay. This,
though, is usually the result of the previous karmas of impulsively or
willfully pursuing a goal, without thought for the consequences.
Rahu's position in Libra indicates that the native is in need of
developing the talent of seeing that every action has a price, and that
that price must be willingly paid. The key to living a happy life is to

Rahu and Ketu

329

determine the price of their desires and actions, so that they will
know what they are getting themselves into, or if indeed they even
want to pursue their desired actions.
Ketu in Aries, indicates a native that has acted through their own
initiative, strength and will. As a result of this they may view the
many things that happen in their lives, or that effect others, as their
own fault, or due to them. Rahu in Libra has to teach that every
action has an equal and opposite reaction, the law of karma. Much of
what happens is not due to them, or their fault, but only the natural
workings of the law of karma that allows all men to reap the due
rewards of their actions.
Ketu in Taurus, Rahu in Scorpio
Ketu in Taurus indicates that the native in recent past lives has
attempted to create security by being secure in the material world,
this usually means through wealth and practical resourcefulness.
Identifying with these has provided security and stability in a world
that is not entirely so. In this lifetime Ketu indicates a growing
discontentment with materiality, as well as a tendency to disrupt any
material structures of security, and in so doing the evolutionary goal
of Ketu to free the native from material attachments is accomplished.
Ketu in Taurus also indicates that the native is completing their
karmas with respect to those material things that have provided
security. Those things being indicated by the house position of Ketu
as well as the planets influenced by Ketu.
Rahu in Scorpio indicates incredibly strong needs, needs that are
not fulfilled by any security that the physical world has to offer. This
may cause the native to compulsively feed of something that appears
to fulfill a need, but when it is seen that this need is not fulfilled,
another is sought. As long as the native is attempting to fulfill their
needs through any physical manifestation, they will find themselves
feeling empty and unfulfilled. As they are able to gain more inner
security, they become capable of greater happiness.

330

Vault of the Heavens

Ketu in Taurus also indicates strong material attachments formed
in recent past lives, while Rahu in Scorpio indicates the transmutation
of these attachments as a result of experiencing a lack of security.
Ketu in Gemini, Rahu in Sagittarius
Ketu in Gemini indicates a native who in recent past lives has
created security through the use of their intellect. Through
experimentation, study, and thought the native has managed to create
a paradigm that allows for life to take place in a safe and secure
manner. In this lifetime, Ketu causes the native to experience doubts
about what exactly they know. When confronted by information that
is contrary to what they believe they know, there is initial resistance,
as new information is threatening to their security paradigm. After
some time to think, however, they experience doubts about their
knowledge, or understanding, that creates an identity crisis over what
they know. They eventual result of this is a deepening of their
knowledge, but also the understanding that they have learned so
much that all they know for sure is that they do not know anything.
Rahu in Sagittarius indicates that the native must define a belief
system or philosophy that takes care of those areas that they are
unable to understand, or create rationality for. The doubting of their
information, through Ketu, forces them to develop faith, and
intuition through Rahu. The doubting of their information indicated
by Ketu in Gemini also forces them to accept the information given
by others, or teachers, indicated by Rahu in Sagittarius. However, as
long as they doubt their own information, there will be a
corresponding doubt of others’ information as well. The key is do
develop the faith and understanding that allows them to believe that,
though, they will never know everything, they will know what they
need to fulfill their role at a given moment.
Ketu in Gemini generally suffers from indecisiveness. This is a
result of Ketu waiting for that last bit of information to close the
case, but the last bit never comes, there is always room for doubt, in
fact it is the nature of the intellectual mind to doubt. In the end they

Rahu and Ketu

331

must learn to act on faith, the need for which is indicated by Rahu in
Sagittarius.
Ketu in Cancer, Rahu in Capricorn
Ketu in Cancer indicates a native who in recent past lives has
created security by stabilizing, or controlling their emotions and
reactions to the events in life. This makes for a more introverted
personality, and one more attached to going inward to find comfort
than to tackle things externally in order to create security. There is a
tendency to over-control the feelings and reactions, which may cause
eruptions or moods to be triggered when the native can no longer
take it. It is because the emotions are controlled, rather than enjoyed
with detachment, that these moods occur. The native needs to learn
to allow the emotions to flow freely, to let the feelings feel what they
may, without any fear of the pain that may be involved with this. The
greater the emotions and reactions are controlled as a result of what
the outer environment brings the more out of control and chaotic the
external environment will be. Rahu in Capricorn indicates this out of
control, chaotic outer environment and instability. Through Rahu in
Capricorn the native learns to create balance and stability in their
external lives that reflects a balanced internal security. A controlled
inner security, the security indicated by Ketu in Cancer, is not a
balanced security, and the imbalances will be revealed by external
factors being unstable through Rahu in Capricorn.
Rahu in Capricorn also indicates a tendency to fear the many
terrible possibilities of the world that are a natural part of life. In
order to overcome these fears a tendency to overly control the
environment arises, which results in nothing but more stress. As the
native truly becomes secure inwardly, these fears are alleviated.
Ketu in Leo, Rahu in Aquarius
Ketu in Leo indicates a native who in recent past lives has
attempted to create security through expressing a noble and dignified
personality. Often times they may have even had a station in life that
required them to express a noble personality. The result of this is that

332

Vault of the Heavens

they did not completely express themselves along their most natural
lines, rather they exhibited only what was best or most virtuous and
noble. In this life, Ketu in Leo, gives great self-doubts that are the
result of the native being unsure of what aspects of their personality
to express, and what to hide. They are insecure, though they may
appear very magnetic. The purpose for creating these doubts are to
help the native overcome any attachment to their role, this allows for
the individual to become completely individualized, this need being
indicated by Rahu's placement in Aquarius.
Rahu in Aquarius indicates that the native is rapidly becoming
individualized. Being individualized is to obtain an honest security
that has no need to try to be more than it is out of any weakness, or
to be held back or hidden due to any weakness; to see oneself with all
one's pluses and minuses, accepting them evenly. This placement of
Rahu gives the opportunity for one to become psychologically
healthy, at ease with themselves and their personality.
The doubts given by Ketu in Leo become less as the native
identifies with groups and peers of like mindedness. The group
involvement, indicated by Rahu in Aquarius, allows the native to see
where they are similar to others, and also where they are unique and
different, this allows the native to become more secure with their
individuality.
Ketu in Virgo, Rahu in Pisces
Ketu in Virgo indicates a native who in recent past lives has
attempted to improve life by practically implementing their resources,
skills and intelligence. They are also firm believers that the quality of
work done indicates the return of their efforts. Work well done has
been compensated, work left undone or done poorly has caused
suffering, deterioration, etc. In this lifetime, therefore, the native is a
skilled and diligent worker.
Rahu in Pisces indicates that the native must learn to surrender
the fruits of their works. Rahu brings to light those areas that their
current efforts seem to have no bearing upon; the work the native
does will not have much effect upon the outcome. When faced by

Rahu and Ketu

333

difficulties, this usually brings some feelings of hopelessness that
things could ever improve, as the native feels like nothing they do
makes a difference. At this point the native may become lethargic
and dream of a better future, but what is necessary is to continue on
with their activities, realizing that they must complete their karmas as
indicated by Rahu’s position in Pisces. Rahu always indicates those
things we can only experience and work out in the material world,
when in Pisces, those things are in a stage of completion and
resolution.
Ketu in Libra, Rahu in Aries
Ketu in Libra indicates a native who in recent past lives has very
carefully considered the results of their actions and desires. The
native has been very conscious of the fact that his actions and desires
have consequences, and to not get involved in more than they can
handle. They have generally managed to live a very pragmatic life.
Rahu in Aries stirs up great passion and brings situations in life that
force the native to take on more than they can practically handle and
to rely on their will and initiative. Doing so allows the native to create
the karmic balance that frees them from the results of their previous
actions.
Ketu in Scorpio, Rahu in Taurus
Ketu in Scorpio indicates a native who in recent past lives has
attempted to gain security by cultivating inner strength when
confronted by the limitation of external factors that are unable to
fulfill their needs. Rahu, being in the opposing sign of Taurus,
indicates the need to welcome whatever security an external source
can practically provide. However, there are some fears involved in
depending upon external forms of security, because the native has
established a paradigm of not doing so through Ketu in Scorpio,
which instead has relied on internal forms of security. However, fears
in relying on external forms of security reflect inner fears and
weakness that yet remain. Rahu awakens these fears by providing
material things that the native has not been confronted with a need

334

Vault of the Heavens

for, or which awaken a need within them. These allow the native to
see how secure they really are, helping them to complete the
transmutation of all their needs. These natives can only enjoy those
things Rahu provides when they are able to approach them without
any desire or need.
Ketu in Sagittarius, Rahu in Gemini
Ketu in Sagittarius indicates a native who in recent past lives has
attempted to create security through cultivating their belief system,
and through faith and intuitive understanding. Rahu in Gemini
indicates that they must now test their beliefs through trial and error,
to find out what really works for them. Oftentimes this causes
indecision with new events that require a decision that the native
does not have the experience to make confidentially.
Rahu in Gemini also indicates that these natives must learn to
clearly define and focus their thoughts and intuitions in such a
manner that they can be clearly explained.
Ketu in Capricorn, Rahu in Cancer
Ketu in Capricorn indicates a native who in recent past lives has
attempted to develop security through managing outer conditions. In
this lifetime external forms of security will not be as fulfilling, or
those things that provide external security come to a close. This
creates fear and instability and motivates the native to develop the
opposing point of Rahu in Cancer, to develop an inner security that
is not dependent upon external factors.
Rahu in Cancer generally indicates that the native is weaker
inwardly than their outward expression would reveal, an oak with
weak roots. Rahu also indicates feelings of emptiness and the need to
develop inner happiness. With this nodal position, until the native's
inner stability corresponds to their outer stability, the outer stability
will not be lasting or fulfilling.

Rahu and Ketu

335

Ketu in Aquarius, Rahu in Leo
Ketu in Aquarius indicates a native who in recent past lives has
attempted to create security by identifying with groups and peers of
like-minded individuals. This has created security in the world, but
now leaves the native feeling less secure with himself or herself as an
individual. The native’s security and self-esteem is conditioned by
what their peers think, do, or say about the them. This results in a
lack of satisfaction with oneself and the need to develop one’s
individual inspirations.
The opposing placement of Rahu in Leo urges the native towards
self-inspiration and a self-esteem that is based upon their own nature,
and not on the views of others. This self-inspiration may be so
powerful that the native is unable to see any other goal but their own,
or may even think that others should do the same as they. This is the
height of insecurity.
Eventually, Rahu brings to attention the native’s personal
insecurities, which reveal that they are not entirely secure amongst
the group. If they were so, they would have no personal insecurities.
Ultimately, they need to feel secure when they can be themselves,
with their differences and similarities, amidst the group, pursuing
their own inspirations, while allowing others to do so as well.
Ketu in Pisces, Rahu in Virgo
Ketu in Pisces indicates a native who in recent past lives has
developed security through surrender, faith, and acceptance. There
has been an emphasis on resolving and completing karmas as well as
transcending the need for anything of practical security, or at the very
least to transcend a particular level of development. Rahu in Virgo
indicates the works that must be done in order to complete the
particular level of development. One must perform the practical
works even if they are not fulfilling, which they are often not. This
often results in the native feeling a lack of zest with their duties,
though they still get through them somehow. Because Rahu in Virgo
indicates work that must be done in order to reap completion, work
done to improve or further things often appears impossible, which

336

Vault of the Heavens

may leave the native feeling without hope for any improved
circumstances when faced with difficulties or struggles. The work
they do, however, gives the necessary completion and resolution
indicated by Ketu's position. Performing their duties in a spirit of
karma yoga overcomes any feelings of hopelessness and prevents
further binding attachments, which would hinder the realization of
Ketu's goal of resolution and transcendence.

LORDS OF RAHU AND KETU
Rahu and Ketu particularly give their results through the agency
of their lords:
1. The house placement of Ketu's lord indicates through what
agency or activity the native has been developing and establishing
the areas indicated by Ketu’s house placement. The rasi Ketu is in
indicates in what manner this is done. The nakshatra lord of Ketu
is similar, but not as significant, as the rasi lord is.
2. The house placement of Rahu's lord indicates through what
agency or activity the native will attempt to develop and establish
the areas by Rahu’s house placement. The rasi Rahu is in
indicates in what manner this is done. The nakshatra lord of
Rahu is similar, but not as significant, as the rasi lord is.
Generally Ketu’s placement indicates those areas where the native
is completing karmas and Rahu indicates those areas that are under
development. As the karmas indicated by Ketu’s placement become
completed, the native develops the house and rasi where Rahu is
located. Similarly, as the native develops the areas indicated by Rahu’s
placement, they bring to completion the areas indicated by Ketu’s
placement. In certain cases, however, this is not so. In the following
cases there is greater emphasis on completing the karmas indicated
by Ketu’s placement than there is in developing the areas indicated
by Rahu’s placement:

Rahu and Ketu

337

1. When the lord of Ketu is with Ketu.
2. When the nakshatra lord of Ketu is with Ketu, or is Ketu. This
point is not as significant as the first.
3. When the lord of Rahu is with Ketu. In this case the opposing
point of Rahu is quite well developed and a lot of karma has been
generated through Rahu that is now being brought to completion
through Ketu.
4. When the nakshatra lord of Rahu is with Ketu, or is Ketu the
effects are similar to point 3, though not as significant.
In the following cases there is greater emphasis on developing the
areas indicated by Rahu then there is on completing the karmas
indicated by Ketu’s placement:
1. When the lord of Rahu is with Rahu.
2. When the nakshatra lord of Rahu is with Rahu, or is Rahu. This
point is not as significant as the first.
3. When the lord of Ketu is with Rahu. In this case the areas
indicated by Rahu’s placement have been previously developed
through karma (activity) in the areas indicated by Ketu’s
placement. The completion of the karmas indicated by Ketu’s
placement occurs through the areas indicated by Rahu’s
placement.
5. When the nakshatra lord of Ketu is with Rahu, or is Rahu, the
effects are similar to point 3, though not as significant.
ASPECTS OF RAHU AND KETU TO THEIR LORDS
The aspect of Rahu or Ketu to one of the lords of Rahu or Ketu
is also important:
1. When the lord of Rahu, or its nakshatra lord, is aspected by
Rahu, then what has been stated about Rahu's position
intensifies.
2. When the lord of Ketu, or its nakshatra lord, is aspected by Ketu,
then what has been stated about Ketu's position intensifies.

338

Vault of the Heavens

3. When the lord of Rahu, or its nakshatra lord, is aspected by Ketu,
then the native is completing some karmas in the area of life
indicated by Rahu (these completions happen through Ketu),
though also developing the areas indicated by Rahu’s position in
some fresh manner.
4. When the lord of Ketu, or its nakshatra lord, is aspected by Rahu,
then the native is freshly developing some areas indicated by
Ketu’s placement, while also completing some karmas in the
areas indicated by Ketu’s placement. This means that there will
be some new influences in the area of life indicated by Ketu's
position, as well as the completion of old ones.
5. In all the above cases the influence of the nakshatra lord is less
than that of the rasi lord.
Note: The necessary development indicated by Rahu is always for the
purpose of creating the balance necessary to free the native from the
karmas indicated by Ketu’s placement.
CONJUNCTIONS AND ASPECTS OF RAHU AND KETU
The effects of the nodes joining or aspecting a planet is more or
less the same; though the conjunctions are much more powerful.
Ketu/Sun
The influence of Ketu on the Sun is to free the native from ego
identification. Ketu creates strong self-doubts that cause the native to
feel a lack in everything they do. There is a strong need to establish
perfection in their actions. This perfection is never realized, as Ketu
is presided by the Absolute aspect of God, and thus a level of
accomplishment that would satisfy him is not to be found in the
material. All other levels of accomplishment leave a nagging feeling
of doubt; what the native is aware of is what he did not do, the
perfection they did not accomplish. Until the native is able to free
themselves from the attachment of seeing themselves as the doer
these painful self-doubts persist. Once the native understands that a
perfect accomplishment consists of the results of one's karmas, plus

Rahu and Ketu

339

or minus any merits or demerits, plus any grace, then he becomes
free of these doubts that are really just the result of being attached to
one's role and seeing themselves as the doer.
Ketu influencing the Sun is also indicative of the native having a
degree of importance or influence in their recent past lives, as well as
having felt accomplished in manifesting their destiny. Again the
doubts given by Ketu cause the native to be hidden and feel insecure
in order that they free themselves from the limited security given by
importance, power and influence.
Ketu/Moon
The influence of Ketu on the Moon indicates a deeper, probing,
mentality that generally suffers discontentment in the world. When
Ketu influences the Moon, the mentality is not so superficial as to be
able to simply enjoy the pleasures of the world. The mind is always
looking deeper, beneath the surface, and thus there is always a
nagging discontent and questioning. This creates an introverted
mindset, which in a spiritual nativity is conducive to spiritual
practices. In other nativities, this may cause introversions and
frustrations that may have violent or explosive eruptions. Generally it
is found that natives with Ketu influencing the Moon have an interest
in psychology.
Another noticeable trait of Ketu's influence to the Moon is to
make the native very emotionally controlled and rigid. When they are
in a negative mood, there is not a lot anyone can do to cheer them
up, they pretty much have to suffer through the mood, after which
they will get up feeling just fine. In fact the depths of their moods
rarely correlate to what brought the mood upon them. There will
usually be associated sub-conscious and past life feelings stirred up by
that which triggers the mood. After the mood, the native will appear
as balanced and controlled as usual, but one of the reasons the
moods are so severe is that the natives do not flow with, and reveal,
their feelings, until a buildup has occurred, and then the deep mood.
These natives also have an ability to cheer anyone out of a mood; this

340

Vault of the Heavens

is due to their ability to not let any feelings come through except
those that they want to reveal.
In recent past lives, those with Ketu influencing the Moon have
established a level of security and safety in the world by controlling
their reactions to the many painful things in life. Controlling is one
thing, feeling is another, so there is usually some pent-up pain in the
native that is released when a mood is triggered. The developmental
goal is to purge the mind from subconscious pain, remorse, regret,
etc. and to develop a spiritualized mentality that truly remains at
peace amidst the varying conditions and reactions of life, rather than
a mentality that controls the feelings and reactions.
Ketu/Mars
The influence of Ketu on Mars creates a nativity that in recent
past lives has established a security foundation based upon one's
strength and will. In this life the native generally has some insecurity
and doubts revolving around the use of their will and this causes their
will to become humbled. They are generally inclined towards peace,
but they may actually have violent thoughts, which may even surprise
themselves. There is generally some inability to harness their will
according to their demand and this may cause great frustrations and
explosions in temper. Often, there will be thoughts of great
adventure and heroism, when it comes down to the real thing,
however, the native either withdraws, with doubt, from the challenge,
or experiences some lack of fulfillment even if becoming the victor in
the challenge.
Mars and Ketu are both violent planets that tend to break and
injure things; therefore the areas of life that are under the influence
of both Ketu and Mars tend to suffer some injury or damage. This
completes the karmas of breaking, fighting, etc. from the past lives.
Ketu/Mercury
The influence of Ketu on Mercury indicates a nativity that in
recent past lives has established a security foundation in the world
that was based upon their intellectual understanding of things, the

Rahu and Ketu

341

nature of the world, etc. In this life they experience great doubts with
their rational understanding, and they always feel like there is a bit of
information missing that they need before they can close the case,
make a decision, etc. This forces them to rely on their gut feeling,
intuition, taking a chance, etc. in short to force them to go beyond
the need of the intellect.
The intellect, having provided such security in the past, is rigid
when confronted with ideas or concepts that are at variance with the
native’s paradigm or understanding, as these new ideas are felt as a
threat to one's security. This causes initial resistance and even debate
with those bringing new ideas or concepts, and the Ketu/Mercury
native will always be able to win an intellectual debate, but later,
when alone, the native experiences doubts once again that force them
to acknowledge something outside their understanding.
At worst, this combination may cause one to be indecisive, and
experience anxiety if they are unable to listen to their intuition, or do
not have faith in a greater guiding principle than their own intellects.
On the useful side, this combination gives a great research mind and
the capacity for deep thinking.
Ketu/Jupiter
The influence of Ketu on Jupiter indicates a native with some
deeper spiritual attachments, ideals, or devotion. Living a life of
ideals, spirituality, etc. in the past incarnations has resulted in the ego
experiencing a heightened degree of security in the world. Ketu’s job
as liberator is to now free the ego from any attachment to living a life
of ideals. This almost always results in these native at some point in
life finding themselves in some circumstance that prevents them
from living out their idealistic nature. This generally creates guilt, selfblame, and self-criticism that may be fed by the blame and criticism
of others as well. These events serve to free the native from any
attachments to doing good, which otherwise could impair one’s
spiritual growth. The conjunction to Jupiter appears significantly
more powerful in this respect.

342

Vault of the Heavens

The influence of Ketu on Jupiter indicating the native having
attempted to gain security in recent past lives due to their belief
system may also create a huge need to see their beliefs manifested
fully in this life. This need is never met, which causes the native to
doubt their beliefs. This creates room fore the native to advance their
understanding, though they are generally not inclined to advance
their understanding until circumstances force them to.
Ketu, though a malefic, is beneficial for the spiritual life, thus
Jupiter influenced by Ketu also tends to deepen one’s insight,
knowledge, and spiritual devotion and generally indicates a spiritual
or philosophical person of some sort.
Ketu/Venus
The influence of Ketu on Venus indicates a nativity that has
developed great tact and diplomacy when dealing with all mundane
affairs of life as well as having enjoyed much of the pleasures the
world can afford. In this life the native experiences a general
discontent with worldly delights, even though there is an initial
expectation of fulfillment from these things. In a spiritual nativity this
influence may be conducive to developing spiritual devotion.
Venus is a planet of pride, under the influence of Ketu, humility is
being developed and pride is never excessive.
Ketu/Saturn
The influence of Ketu on Saturn indicates a nativity that has
experienced security as a result of being an authority in some manner
or field. In this life, Ketu’s goal is to free the native from the need of
being an authority figure in order to feel secure. Ketu does this
through confrontations with those that cause the native to doubt
their capacity as an authority figure. These doubts result in the native
having the only choice of learning to be happy and secure without
being an authority figure.

Rahu and Ketu

343

Rahu/Sun
The influence of Rahu to the Sun indicates an evolutionary urge
to develop the personality, individuality, creative will and expression.
The native is generally self-willed and appears magnetic, powerful
and confident. What the native actually feels, however, is entirely
different. They generally feel very insecure and not stable or
grounded in themselves. The expression of confidence and power is
what they hope to realize, which only happens when they become
secure in their individuality. The native projects strength and power,
though experiencing doubts and lack of confidence in an attempt to
compensate for their weakness. This can never result in their really
feeling confident and the result is a breakdown of all that they
thought was important to their self-development, in other words an
identity crisis.
The urge to develop their creative will causes them to look upon
everything that comes their way as an opportunity to manifest their
goals or desires. In natives exhibiting self-centered tendencies this
may create a personality that believes that everybody else is there for
them.
Generally the native has not had his masculine side validated for
the qualities that are true to ones self, one’s svadharma. This causes
inner frustration and turmoil with regards to what one's focus and
purpose in life is. Not feeling confident and secure in one’s
svadharma creates stagnation of the best sides of oneself. Oftentimes
the native has had a role placed upon him that was not true to his
nature but instead an ideal someone else had for him. This ideal often
includes some concept that the native is better than others are or
special. This helps to reinforce an expression of confidence and
strength over the insecure core of their self and individuality.
In time the native gains opportunities to develop their
personalities along their natural lines and to learn that they are no
different, better or worse than others, but only different in the roles
they play. It usually takes them a long time to feel secure and
comfortable with themselves and their place in life.

344

Vault of the Heavens

Rahu/Moon
The influence of Rahu on the Moon results in some weakness in
the mind that is in need of strengthening. This is generally the result
of the mind not being centered in the heart, instead being centered
externally or remaining unfocused. When the mind is centered
externally there is discontent and depression that comes from the
lack of fulfillment the world has to offer. When the mind remains
unfocused there is a higher degree of psychic disorders, and/or a lack
of clarity and concentration. Rahu influencing the Moon may give
heightened psychic sensitivity but usually this is also accompanied by
a weakness that make the native more sensitive to psychic disorders.
Other weakness of the mind caused by Rahu may be various types
of mental derangement, but for any serious difficulties other malefic
influences must also be indicated. In the horoscopes of natives with
strong spiritual tendencies, Rahu influencing the Moon may give
strong attunement.
The discontent that Rahu casts upon the Moon is also a cause of
addictions. Addictions also serve to make the mind unfocused, which
results again in psychic disorders. Rahu may also give a tendency to
live in the imagination, in the realm of fantasy, wishes and hopes,
which ultimately lead to discontent and depression because in the
end the native still lives in the real world.
In female natives the conjunction of the Moon with Rahu creates
a strong feminine magnetism, and a strong emotional transparency
that is attractive to men. However, the woman herself feels
ungrounded and insecure and is usually not emotionally healthy
enough to enjoy a relationship.
The need for the native, when Rahu is influencing the Moon is to
learn to keep the mind anchored in the heart, the one place of true
satisfaction for it. With natives having spiritual tendencies this is an
eventual possibility.
Rahu/Mars
The influence of Rahu on Mars indicates a native who is in need
of developing the healthy use of their will and power. The native

Rahu and Ketu

345

usually has an explosive potential and many power struggles with
people. The native may have a lack of confidence in using their will.
This may create abusive situations in life as well as anger and
frustration whenever one’s will is thwarted or challenged. The
insecurity revolving around the use of their will that causes their selfesteem to feel threatened may lead to aggressive and abusive
behavior. The native needs to learn a proper application of the use of
the will, part of which is to know when to use it and when not to.
Rahu influencing Mars indicates ideas in the mind that something
must be had at any cost, the option of not having or not winning is
out of the question. This may cause over aggressiveness or excess
impulsiveness.
Rahu/Mercury
The influence of Rahu on Mercury indicates an intellect that
through experimentation, trial, and error, is learning to develop the
discrimination that serves to help one make the most beneficial
choices in life. The developmental need is to learn to gather facts and
information to use as a foundation for understanding in life. The
experimental nature of this may indicate a native with an original and
inventive mentality. There is generally a tendency towards
indecisiveness when making important decisions, which the native
always feels unprepared for no matter the advice or information they
have gathered. This is due to the difficulty in really understanding
what they know. Without real understanding, more facts just lead to
more indecision.
Rahu/Jupiter
The influence of Rahu on Jupiter indicates a native in the need of
defining their belief system and purpose. There is usually some
discontent, unhappiness, or lack revolving around their religious
upbringing and this may make one irreligious or disinterested in
spiritual values. If there are strong spiritual factors in the horoscope,
the influence of Rahu on Jupiter may create an aspiring spiritual
personality, but one that is usually more inclined towards preaching

346

Vault of the Heavens

and teaching to others, which they do to compensate for their own
lack of understanding. They are essentially preaching and teaching to
themselves.
The influence of Rahu on Jupiter also indicates a strong need to
find meaning and purpose in life. Until this happens, the native
usually suffers some discontent and a lack of clear direction. There
may be a tendency to become overly enthusiastic about a venture, but
only for a short while, after which discontent and purposelessness set
in. The native needs to find an inner purpose that gives meaning to
life in order to overcome this discontent.
The conjunction of Rahu to Jupiter seems to be much more
severe and when under the influence of Mars or Saturn, creates
Guruchandala yoga, making one irreligious, a hypocrite and suffering
on account of children. In a woman’s nativity, this additionally
indicates suffering due to having difficulty finding a worthwhile
marriage partner. The aspect is not nearly as severe in its negativity.
The strong aspect of Jupiter onto Rahu, in fact, eventually alleviates a
lot of the trouble indicated by Rahu. The strong aspect of Jupiter
indicates that the native will eventually be able to understand the
areas Rahu is influencing and learn to do what is needed to maintain
happiness.
Rahu/Venus
The influence of Rahu on Venus indicates a native with a very
powerful desire nature that causes disruption with what they want,
particularly with regards to relationships. There is generally a
tendency to experience powerful hypnotic attractions to individuals
of the opposite sex. These attractions are the result of one aspect of
the person to whom the native is attracted to seem like the all, when
in fact it is only one small aspect that the native is attracted to. This
small aspect is something that the native is attempting to develop
within himself at the time of the attraction. The result is a tendency
to “fall in love” before seeing the person completely for what they
are, which results in eventual disappointment or discontentment.
Maintaining balance and harmony in relationships are found to be

Rahu and Ketu

347

difficult for the native and they need to develop some discrimination
with regards to whom they fall in love with, as those people they fall
in love with rarely validate their love or fulfill their desire.
Venus represents conscious desires. Rahu represents subconscious
desires, primal desires, hopes, wishes, fantasies, strange longings, etc.
Putting these together may result in a very compulsive desire nature,
which has little chance of fulfillment. The resulting discontent may
eventually serve to motivate the native towards some spiritual
fulfillment, provided there are strong spiritualizing factors in the
horoscope.
Rahu/Saturn
The influence of Rahu on Saturn indicates a native that has
difficulty in developing and maintaining security and stability. Those
things the native feels attached to, or hopes to acquire security
through are often taken away. Outer instability generally results in
nerve-wracking conditions, and there is generally some inner
instability and tension that makes the experiences of life less
enjoyable. The only thing the native can really do to combat this is
develop a dispassionate and detached mentality, which is particularly
hard for them.
Rahu influencing Saturn also generally indicates a lack of
consistent, long-term focus in life. The native will usually have a
happier life once they are focused and secure in their path.
Rahu and Saturn are both separating influences, the house that
they are both influencing will usually be an area where the native
experiences complete or lengthy separations.

Vault of the Heavens

348

Moon
Ò

Ketu

%
Earth

Rahu

Sun

Ò

Ecliptic Plane

Rahu and Ketu
Rahu, the ascending node of the Moon, and Ketu, the descending Node of the
Moon are astronomical points formed by the intersection of the plane of the
ecliptic with the path of the Moon. It is at these two points that eclipses occur.

Tajika Aspects

349

29
Tajika Aspects
There is a branch of Vedic astrology called Tajika astrology, which
is actually of Persian origin, Tajika in fact means Persian. The
techniques of Tajika astrology that are practiced consist of a very
comprehensive method of making predictions with solar return
charts, and prasna or answering questions based upon the moment of
query. The Tajika techniques of prasna are similar to the traditional
horary techniques used by Western astrologers. The aspects used in
Tajika astrology are also identical to the aspects used by traditional
Western astrologers. In India, Tajika aspects are used for solar
returns and prasna, and generally not in natal astrology. Tajika aspects
can, however, be helpful in analyzing the horoscope, particularly for
the Western astrologer who is used to Western aspects and is making
the transition towards traditional Vedic astrology.
Following are the Tajika aspects:
Planets that are 60 degrees apart or 120 degrees apart aspect
each other in a friendly manner.
Planets that are 60 degrees apart exert a secretly friendly
aspect towards each other.
Planets that are 120 degrees apart exert an openly friendly
aspect towards each other.
Planets that are conjunct, 90 degrees apart or 180 degrees apart
inimically aspect each other.
Conjunct planets, and planets that are 180 degrees apart
exert an openly inimical aspect towards each other.
Planets that are 90 degrees apart exert a secretly inimical
aspect towards each other.

350

Vault of the Heavens

Each planet has a particular amount of degrees over which it
exerts its aspect. This is known as the deeptamsa, or orb of influence:
Sun
Moon
15 deg. 12 deg.

Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus
8 deg. 7 deg.
9 deg. 7 deg.

Saturn
9 deg.

These orbs of influence are exactly identical to the orbs of
influence considered in Western astrology until recent years when it
became popular for every Western astrologer to develop their own
orbs of influence.
The orbs of influence of the two planets whose aspect are being
considered are averaged. If, from an exact aspect, the planets fall
within the range of their averaged orbs they are considered to be in
aspect. For instance: If a Sun/Saturn aspect were being considered,
the Sun’s orb of influence is 15 degrees, Saturn’s is 9 degrees, 15 and
9 is 24, the average is 12. Therefore, if the Sun and Saturn are within
12 degrees of an exact aspect they would be considered to aspect
each other. In this case, if a 90-degree aspect were being considered,
the aspect would actually occur any time the Sun and Saturn were
78–102 degrees apart. There are also certain Tajika yogas under
which planets will exert influence beyond the average of their orbs,
but these yogas are special cases beyond the scope of this work.
Planets in friendly aspect to each other indicate tendencies, skills,
traits, relationships, activities, etc. that are harmoniously developed,
relative to each other, in the native. These provide peace, confidence,
and happiness. Openly friendly aspects indicate the tendencies, etc.
that the native is consciously aware of and benefiting from. Secretly
friendly aspects indicate the tendencies, etc. that the native is unaware
of and is surprised to find as a source of happiness and benefit at
some point in their life.
Planets in inimical aspect to each other indicate tendencies, skills,
traits, relationships, activities, etc. that create conflict within and
around the individual, in respect to their mutual indications. Openly
inimical aspects indicate the tendencies, etc. that the native is very

Tajika Aspects

351

aware of and those he knows are a source of unhappiness. Secretly
inimical aspects indicate the tendencies, etc. that create conflict
within and around the native that he is generally not aware of until a
high point of crisis is reached.
TIMING THE EFFECTS OF TAJIKA ASPECTS
1. The amount of degrees that the aspect is from exact indicates the
age in years that the tendencies, etc. indicated by the two
aspecting planets are first developed within the native. In case of
friendly aspects this may be the first move towards a skill or
activity that the native finds beneficial and productive of
happiness. In case of inimical aspects, crisis, suffering, abuse or
shock occurs in the native’s life in respect to the aspecting planets
that serves to set a mentality and behavioral pattern that results in
unhappiness until the native matures out of the mentality or
behavior.
2. The amount of degrees that the aspect is from exact, multiplied
by 12, indicates the age in years that the native realizes the effects
of the tendencies, etc, indicated by the two aspecting planets. In
the event of a friendly aspect there is the auspicious fruition or
initiation of the planets indications. In the event of an inimical
aspect, the indications of the planets suffer crisis and great
difficulty, though through these difficulties something beneficial
may mature or materialize.
These timing techniques are known as Bhrigu Progressions. The onedegree is equivalent to one-year technique is similar to the
progressions used by Western astrologers.
SUMMARY OF ASPECTS
In astrology there are three types of aspects: Rasi aspects,
planetary aspects, and Tajika aspects. Each of these is important in its
own right.
Rasi aspects are the most significant for indicating what concretely
manifests. Rasi aspects between planets are always mutual. They are

352

Vault of the Heavens

the most important aspects to consider in the formation of the
specific yogas such as the Raja Yogas presented in this work, as well
as the named yogas such as Chamara Yoga, Kahala Yoga, etc.
Planetary aspects particularly indicate the transmission of the
qualities of the aspecting planet to the aspected. For instance, Saturn
is black and isolated; anything Saturn aspects take on a blackish
coloration and is isolated from the native. Planetary aspects indicate
very precisely how much of an influence is cast when the exact
aspectual strength is calculated. Planetary aspects are not mutual; one
planet may strongly influence another planet without being strongly
influenced in return. Planets strongly aspecting with planetary aspects
are also capable of forming yogas.
Tajika aspects particularly indicate the relationship, whether
friendly and harmonious, or inimical and tense, between two planets.
The relationship indicated by the Tajika aspect must have its result,
so these aspects also avail themselves to prediction, but not to yoga
formation, except for the special Tajika yogas used in prasna and
solar returns.

The Outer Planets

353

30
The Outer Planets
The outer planets, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto are not
traditionally used among Vedic Astrologers, though the ancient seers
knew of their presence. Since their discovery, Western Astrologers
have begun to place great emphasis on these planets. With more and
more interest growing in the West over Vedic Astrology, there is
greater interest in using the outer planets in the context of Vedic
Astrology.
The outer planets are invisible to the naked eye, whereas the seven
planets, Sun-Saturn are visible. The planets, Sun-Saturn, being visible,
indicate what concretely happens, they are therefore of prime
importance in predicting concrete events and actions, and in
determining actual character traits. The outer planets, being invisible,
have to do with the inner nature of man. More specifically they
indicate the involutionary urges of man to regain spiritual
consciousness. They do not, however, indicate spiritual actions; the
planets Sun-Saturn indicate all actions depending upon their
placement and interrelationship. Certain of their combinations
indicate spiritual practices, and others not. How the native handles
the involutionary urges indicated by the outer planets are dependent
upon his character and actions, by the visible planets, Sun-Saturn.
The most distant visible planet is Saturn. Saturn most essentially
indicates separation. Saturn represents the misery that is a result of
man’s consciousness being separated from Spiritual consciousness.
The outer planets, being outside Saturn’s orbit, represent the urge to
regain what was lost due to this separation.
Rahu and Ketu, like the outer planets, are also not visible planets.
Rahu and Ketu, however, do create a visible effect; they are the cause
of eclipses. They, therefore, do create concrete events and influence
the actions of Man. The outer planets, being never visible in any

354

Vault of the Heavens

manner, never indicate concrete events or the actions of a native. It is
therefore unreliable to use them for predicting concrete events and
character; character meaning, what an individual will actually do in a
particular situation. The outer planets, however, are important and
reveal the forces within Man that have their actions internally. Rahu
and Ketu, since they are generally not visible, also reveal the forces
within Man, but since they do show themselves during eclipses, they
indicate that which is within Man and which surfaces as a concrete
event or action.
The outer planets are, in fact, very similar to the influences of
Rahu and Ketu. Rahu and Ketu both create sudden changes and
independence like Uranus, discontentment like Neptune, and
compulsion and destruction like Pluto. It is difficult to determine
which of these forces Rahu or Ketu is directing towards any planet or
point it is influencing. In addition to Rahu and Ketu’s influence, a
careful consideration of the Gunas influencing the planet or house
under consideration is necessary. Rajas indicates sudden change and
independence, Sattva indicates discontentment, and Tamas indicates
destruction. The outer planets, however, indicate this very easily. The
influence of Uranus indicates sudden changes, independence and
growth of individuality. Neptune’s influence indicates discontentment
and longings. Pluto’s influence indicates destruction and
transformation.
To sum up:
1. The outer planets indicate the involutionary forces within the
native.
2. The houses and planets that the outer planets influence indicate
sources of various types of unhappiness with worldly living.
3. The houses and planets that the outer planets affect are under the
influence of their involutionary forces and they therefore indicate
areas where significant inner development may be made.
4. Whether the forces indicated by the outer planets motivate one
to grow or motivate one to seek destructive and escapist routes is

The Outer Planets

5.

6.

7.

8.

355

dependent upon the planets Sun-Saturn and Rahu and Ketu, the
nine planets that are indicative of Man’s actions.
The outer planets allow the astrologer to specifically understand
the involutionary forces in the horoscope. This used in
conjunction with Rahu and Ketu is perhaps the greatest use of
the outer planets.
The forces of the outer planets that actually manifest will also be
indicated by Rahu and Ketu. That is why a Vedic astrologer can
give a fantastic and accurate reading without using the outer
planets. However, sometimes it can be tricky to find Rahu and
Ketu’s influence to the planet or house. The influence can
happen not only through aspect or conjunction, but also through
dispositors, nakshatra lords, or in the navamsa.
The influence of the outer planets will effect a person’s
attachments, longings, etc, but the outer planets will not indicate
what the native will do about it, if anything. Only the seven
planets, Sun-Saturn, reveal what the native does about it.
Additionally, Rahu and Ketu indicate what happens to the native
regardless of their will.
In my opinion, the greatest mistake being made by many modern
Western astrologers is assuming that the outer planets will dictate
the native’s character, actions and the events in their life. The
outer planets indicate important urges within the native.
Analyzing these urges can be important and beneficial, but urges
may be fulfilled in many ways, only the nine traditional planets
indicate exactly what happens as a result of any forces placed
upon the native.

INVOLUTIONARY URGES OF THE OUTER PLANETS
Each of the three outer planets indicate one important
involutionary urge:
Uranus
The urge towards individualization, the psychological freedom
that comes from being and accepting oneself without any insecurities

356

Vault of the Heavens

that cause one to pretend to be more than they are, or constrain them
from being what they are. (Saturn particularly indicates these
insecurities and psychological complexes). This may result in
rebellious acts, irresponsibility and instability, or freedom from the
attachments that one has used to validate themselves, growth of
individuality and recognition of one’s svadharma (own nature),
depending upon the character of the native as indicated by the
traditional planets.
Neptune
The urge towards union with something greater. As a result of not
having this union, Neptune breeds longings and discontents with that
which it influences. These discontents and longings may manifest as
spiritual striving, escapist tendencies or lethargy and daydreaming,
depending upon the character of the native as indicated by the
traditional planets.
Pluto
The urge to destroy ego consciousness. The ego cannot to be
destroyed, only the things it clings to as “Mine” can be destroyed,
only we ourselves can give up the consciousness of “I”. Remember
the story of Vamana Avatar? Bali realized that Vishnu had taken
away all his “Mine” and that it behooved him to surrender the “I.”
Also in the Mahabharata, Bhishma, representing the aged ego, has the
boon of dying only when he himself wills it. These stories both
indicate that the only real power we have is to surrender the “I”
consciousness.
That which Pluto influences indicates the “Mine” of egocentric
structures and attachments that have been a means of security to the
ego that are destroyed in order to offer the opportunity to surrender
the egocentric idea of “I.” The needs and tendencies of that which is
influenced by Pluto also fail in getting the individual what they had
hoped for, again forcing them to let go of egocentric identities. These
destructive forces of Pluto result in forceful, compulsive, and self-

The Outer Planets

357

destructive actions, or in the transformation of egocentric
attachments and behavior.
THE TRI-MURTHI AND THE OUTER PLANETS
The three outer planets can be correlated to the Tri-Murthi.
Uranus relates to Brahma, the Creator, who creates what Is, realizing
this allows one to accept one’s individuality. Neptune relates to
Vishnu, the union of all things in and as part of Him, realizing this
overcomes all discontent and longings. Siva relates to Pluto, the
destruction of those things the ego holds onto, for the purpose of
raising one to higher states of consciousness.
USING THE OUTER PLANETS
An important consideration in using the outer planets is deciding
what their aspects should be. Rasi aspects particularly indicate what
manifests, since the outer planets are involutionary planets and not
manifesting planets, it would not seem appropriate to concentrate on
reading the outer planets with rasi aspects. We do not have guidelines
for what the outer planets planetary aspects should be; besides, the
outer planets do not have the influential qualities of the other planets,
therefore an attempt to designate strength of planetary aspects would
not seem appropriate. Tajika aspects indicate the developmental
tension or harmony between two planets; it would therefore seem
most appropriate to use Tajika aspects in judging the influence of the
outer planets. Since the discovery of the outer planets, Western
astrologers have proved these types of aspects to be effective as well.
The astrologer may, therefore, proceed with confidence with Tajika
aspects if he chooses to use the outer planets. For the orb of
influence of the outer planets’ aspect, I would suggest the same as for
Saturn, 9 degrees.
To use the outer planets:
1. Consider the house placement of the outer planet. This will be
the area wherein the native will particularly experience the
involutionary forces indicated by the outer planet, along with any

358

2.

3.

4.

5.

Vault of the Heavens

corresponding lack of happiness. The effects given for Ketu in
the houses in the chapter, “Rahu and Ketu” will provide a rough
idea of the outer planets influence to the house it is in.
Tempering this with the involutionary influences of the outer
planets, as provided in this chapter, will reveal the essence of the
outer planet’s influence.
The house opposite the outer planet is always receiving an openly
inimical aspect from the outer planet. It is, therefore, always
important to consider along with the outer planet itself. This will
be a house that is difficult for the native to utilize effectively
because of over concentration on the house that the outer planet
is in. A healthy understanding and use of the opposite house
occurs as the native grows through the involutionary forces
indicated by the outer planet to the house it is in. The effects
given for Rahu in the houses in the chapter, “Rahu and Ketu”
will provide a rough idea of the influence of the outer planet
upon the house opposite it.
Consider the rasi placement of the outer planet in a similar
fashion as the house. The effects given for Ketu in the rasis will
provide a rough idea of the outer planets influence to the rasi it is
in, and the effects given for Rahu in the rasis will provide a rough
idea of the influence of the outer planet upon the opposite rasi.
There will be greater lack of happiness, and more motivation for
growth, corresponding to the outer planet under consideration,
depending upon the amount of aspects, especially the inimical
aspects the outer planet is involved in.
Any planets aspected by an outer planet will also be under the
influence of the involutionary forces of the outer planet. Planets
in inimical aspect to an outer planet indicate great tension and
unhappiness within the individual, and a great need to grow
through the involutionary influence of the outer planet before
any happiness can be experienced with those things indicated by
the aspected planet. Planets in friendly aspect to an outer planet
are under involutionary forces that the native can comfortably
handle. Though at times these planets may be a source of

The Outer Planets

359

unhappiness, the desires and tendencies indicated by these
planets are usually transmuted harmoniously. To time the
influence of the aspects:
1. The amount of degrees the aspect is from exact indicates
the age in years that the need to grow through the
involutionary forces indicated by the outer planet first
came to the native’s attention. If it is an inimical aspect,
the native is usually made aware of this need to grow as a
result of some shocking event in life. If it is a friendly
aspect, the need usually arose in the mind simply as a
result of watching life.
2. The amount of degrees the aspect is from exact,
multiplied by 12, indicates the age at which the
involutionary forces grow strong, offering the native the
opportunity to realize the involutionary goal, or make
significant growth towards it.
TRANSITS OF THE OUTER PLANETS
The transits of the outer planets indicate when significant
developmental forces arise in the native. These transits indicate for
what reasons of growth events in life are as they are. These transits
will not, however, indicate what will happen. When a planet, or point
in the horoscope is conjoined or aspected, with Tajika aspects, by a
transiting outer planet, it is under the involutionary forces of the
outer planet and requires appropriate growth. These forces will be
experienced very powerfully when the transit is exact, though they
have some influence as long as the transiting planet is in the same
navamsa as the transited planet.
THE OUTER PLANETS AND RAHU AND KETU
The influences indicated by the outer planets to the houses and
rasis wherein they are placed are a result of activities relative to the
house and rasi of Ketu’s placement, and of Ketu’s lord. The
necessary development of the houses and rasis opposite the outer
planets is developed and realized through activity in the areas

Vault of the Heavens

360

indicated by the house and rasi placement of Rahu and of Rahu’s
lord.

-./
Uranus

Neptune

Pluto

Conclusion

361

Conclusion
The purpose of this text has been sixfold. One, to clearly present
the principles of astrology that are necessary for any serious study of
Vedic astrology, such as planetary relationships, dignities, lordship of
rasis, aspects, karakas, Vimshottari dasa, etc. Two, to alleviate the
confusion, which most beginning students suffer, due to many
seemingly contradictory principles, such as the natural and temporal
benefic and malefic natures of the planets. Three, to provide a
reference work of important indications of the planets, rasis,
nakshatras, etc. Four, to provide insights into the counseling potential
of Vedic astrology through interpretations of the planets’ influence
on human growth, especially those of Saturn, Rahu, and Ketu. Five,
to assist the eager Western astrologer in making the transition from
Western astrology to Vedic astrology by including chapters on Tajika
aspects and the outer planets. Six, to present many predictive
techniques that are universally applicable to all areas of life.
Beyond this lies a vast world of astrology, which one will want to
continue their studies in and eventually specialize in those areas that
are found most interesting. For each area of life there are specific
principles that are necessary in order to accurately judge the
horoscope. For instance, benefics are generally considered to support
the house they are in, but if Venus and Mercury are found in the 7th
house, they indicate promiscuity and no marriage, or possibly the
death of the spouse in the event that marriage occurs. The aspect of
Jupiter on this may give marriage late in life. Similarly, the 5th lord is
generally a helpful planet, but even a naturally benefic 5th lord in the
7th house destroys relationships, only Mars for Cancer lagna is
exempted from this. We have also learned that planets in the rasi of a
benefic or in an angle do well, but when judging children, Jupiter or
the 5th lord in Taurus, Leo, Virgo, or Scorpio is never productive for
children since these are childless rasis. Also, status-conferring planets
in Leo are very productive, even though Leo is the rasi of a malefic.
Each area of life has many applicable principles of this type.

362

Vault of the Heavens

In addition there are many specific yogas that indicate something
particular in life that are often only remotely related to the houses
ruling the area of life. For instance, if the navamsa lord of the lord of
the 2nd lord is Saturn or Mars and it is in an angle or trine with
malefics one will be a master of six sastras (meaning a very learned
person).
Only a very few of these special principles and yogas are to be
found in modern texts or classrooms, however, the classical texts are
rich in them. Therefore, one of the next steps to learn astrology well
is to study the classical texts. I find that most students of astrology
find studying the classical texts confusing; therefore, I suggest the
following guidelines for their study.
First, decide upon what area of life you want to study. Then
compile all relevant material from all the classical texts you can find.
There are now about thirty classical texts easily available in the
English language. The most important ones containing many special
principles and yogas are: Jataka Tattva, Sarvartha Chintamani, Jataka
Parijata, Brihat Parashara Hora Sastra, Bhavartha Ratnakara, Brihat
Jataka, Saravali, and Phaladeepika.
Compile the relevant material of the area of life you desire to
study by typing it out or writing it down. Though this is tedious, it
will result in your memorizing many principles and yogas that you
can immediately begin applying to horoscopes. After compiling all
the relevant information, organize it so that it is readily available.
Then go through a stack of horoscopes and apply all the principles
you have compiled to see what is most effective. You will find that
many of the combinations in the classical texts are nothing but
reiterations of the basic principles. Sorting out the special principles
and combinations from these will reduce your organized material.
After going through all this you will have a good grasp of the special
principles governing each area of life, as well as a compilation, better
then any book, that you can refer to in times of need.
There are many important areas of astrological study not given
attention in this text. There are the Vargas, or divisional charts, other
charts like the navamsa. Each Varga relates to a particular area of life,

Conclusion

363

as well as having a rich symbolism of deities and myth. Vargas are
best put to use after the rasi and navamsa are being used effectively.
Mathematical techniques are available that allow the astrologer to
quantify how much good or ill a planet will yield. However, the
astrologer has to first be able to determine what the planet will yield,
before judging how much.
In addition to the Vimshottari Dasa, there are hosts of other dasas
that the astrologer may use. The dasas are for timing what is
indicated in the horoscope; therefore the astrologer must first learn
how to determine what is indicated in the horoscope before
concerning themselves with additional dasas that determine when.
Techniques of relationship compatibility are also available. The
compatibility techniques suggested for use by the Sages of India
reveal the principles that are necessary for love and harmony between
Man and Woman.
Remedials may be suggested for any ills that are indicated in the
horoscope, or to amplify anything desirable that is indicated in the
horoscope. These remedies include charity, mantras, yantras,
gemstones, colors and flowers.
Muhurtha, or Electional Astrology, choosing an auspicious
moment to begin an event is highly developed in India and one of
the most practical uses of astrology.
Prasna, or Horary Astrology, answering questions based on a
horoscope cast for the moment of query, is also a useful branch of
astrology that has the advantage of not requiring a birth time. This
system is developed to such a degree in India that it is possible to
read all of the native’s affairs, including their death, from the Prasna
chart.
The influence of transiting planets is also significant and highly
developed in India, with techniques to time events to the day as well
as Ashtakavarga, an elaborate system for determining transit effects.
Most significantly, there are those techniques commonly falling
under the label of Jaimini Astrology. These are perhaps the most
revealing, accurate, and simple techniques, however, these techniques
are laced with controversy.

Vault of the Heavens

364

Each of these areas is vast and each of these deserves a separate
text; they are therefore not included in this work.

The Zodiac

Index

365

Index
A
Aagama Avastha, 277, 289
Aagamana Avastha, 277,
287
AbdaBala, 225
Adhama, 233
Adishesha, 18, 20
Age, of the Planets, 33
Agni, 18
Amsa, 279
Angles, 107, 121, 215
Anishta, 233
Antar Dasa, 230, 231, 248
Apoklimas, 107
Aquarius, 310
Aries, 308
Artha, 108, 176, 179
Ashtakavarga, 363
Aspects, 79,242
Aspects, Planetary, 193,
207, 262, 268,351
Aspects, Rasi, 197, 203,
207, 351, 262, 268,
Aspects, Tajika, 349, 351,
357
Aspectual Tables, 198-201
Association, 207
Asta, 99
Astronomical Data of the
Planets, 22
Asubha Yoga, 249, 253,
260
Auspicious Degrees, 264
Avarohini, 232
Avastha, Aagama, 277,
289
Avastha, Aagamana,
277287
Avastha, Bhojana, 277,
280, 290
Avastha, Gamana, 277,
285

Avastha, Garvita, 274
Avastha, Kautuka, 277,
292
Avastha, Kshobhita, 273
Avastha, Kshudhita, 273
Avastha, Lajjita, 271
Avastha, Mudita, 274
Avastha, Netrapani, 277,
283
Avastha, Nidraa, 277, 293
Avastha, Nrityalipsa, 277,
291
Avastha, Prakaashana,
277, 284
Avastha, Sabhaayaam
Vasti, 277, 288
Avastha, Shayana, 277,
280, 281
Avastha, Trushita, 272
Avastha, Upavesha, 277,
282
Avasthas, 93, 296
Avasthas, Deeptaadi, 93,
105, 296
Avasthas, Lajjitaadi, 271,
296
Avasthas, Shayanaadi, 277,
296
Avatar, of the Planets, 2
Ayana Bala, 39, 225, 228
Ayana, 45
B
Basis Above and Below,
175, 181
Benefics, 37-39, 305
Bhava, 107
Bhava Chakras, 118
Bhita Avastha, 94
Bhoga, 177, 183
Bhojana Avastha, 277,
280, 290

Body Parts, 60, 63, 80,
117, 177, 184
Body Tissues of the
Planets, 39
Brahma18, 20, 177, 183,
357
Brahman, 18, 21
Brahmins, 28, 58
Buddha, 2, 7
Bukti, 230
C
Cadent Houses, 107
Cancellation of
Debilitation, 86, 87, 92
Cancer, 309
Capricorn, 310
Cardinal Rasis, 57
Caste, 28, 58, 62, 176
Celestial Equator, 228
Chakras, 53
Chandra Lagna, 269
Chara Rasis, 57
Cheshta Bala, 96, 225
Cheshta, 278, 296
Childless Rasis, 361
Classical Texts, 362
Clothes, of the Planets,
48
Color, 62
Colors, of Planets, 30
Combust, 99-105
Common Rasis, 57
Compound
Relationships, 78
Conjunctions, 79, 84,
189, 207, 242, 262
D
Dainya Yoga, 208

Vedic Astrology Primer
Dasa, 79, 210, 218, 221,
227, 229, 231, 269, 363
Dasa, Adhama, 233
Dasa, Anishta, 233
Dasa, Avarohini, 232
Dasa, Madhya, 232, 233
Dasa, Rikta, 233
Dasa, Rohini, 232
Day/Night Strong, 62
Debilitation, 49, 82, 87
Debilitation,
Cancellation, 86, 87, 92,
219
Deepta Avastha, 93
Deeptaadi Avasthas, 93,
105, 296
Deeptamsa, 350
Deity, 175, 180
Deity, of the Planets, 18
Delaying Factors, 262
Descendent, 65
Deva, 176, 182
Dharma, 109, 122, 176,
179
Dhatu, 47, 183
Dig Bala, 224
Dignities, 81, 83, 252
Dina Avastha, 93
Directional Strength, 224
Directions, 48, 62, 183
Directions, of the
Planets, 48
Dispositors, 207, 219,
269
Divisional Charts, 197,
217, 362
Dosha, 31, 61, 62, 177,
184, 236
Drekkana Bala, 223
Drik Bala, 226
Drishti, 278, 296
Dual Rasis, 57, 203
Dukhita Avastha, 94
Dusthanas, 108, 251
Dvisvabhava Rasis, 57

366

E

House Charts, 118
House Lords, 121, 243,
253
House Systems, 118
Houses, 74, 107, 275
Husbandmen, 176

Eclipses, 1, 348
Ecliptic, 228, 348
Electional Astrology, 363
Elements, 56, 57, 62, 236
Elements, Five, 41
I
Enemy’s Rasi, 83
Equal House Chart, 118
Exaltation, 49, 82, 87, 249, Indra, 18, 19
306
Ishta and Kashta, 96
F
Fatal Degrees, 264
Feminine, 30, 54, 60
Five Elements, 236
Five Elements, 41
Fixed Rasis, 57, 203
Fixed Stars, 168
Friends Rasi, 83

J
Jaimini Astrology, 363
Janma Nakshatra, 174
Janma, 172
Jeevas, 1, 47, 183
Jupiter, 102, 128, 189,
235, 245, 258, 259, 299,
302, 341, 345

G

K

Gamana Avastha, 277,
285
Garvita Avastha, 274
Gemini, 309
Gemstones, 48, 54
Ghati, 277
Glyphs of Planets, 52
Glyphs of Rasis, 64
Glyphs, Outer Planets,
360
Grand Cross, 216
Great Enemy’s Rasi, 83
Great Friends Rasi, 83
Gunas, 26, 58, 62, 175

Kala Bala, 224
Kalapurusha, 60
Kama, 109, 176, 179
Kapha, 31, 32, 61, 177,
184
Karaka, 215, 257, 258,
263
Karma, 177, 183
Kartikeya, 18
Kautuka Avastha, 277,
292
Kendra Bala, 223
Kendras, 107
Ketu, 1, 51, 76, 84, 106,
196, 212, 236, 247, 259,
301, 303, 304, 313, 348,
354, 359
Khala Avastha, 94
Khala Yoga, 209
Kopa Avastha, 99
Krishna, 2, 3

H
Harsha Yoga, 213
Hemming, 210
Hora Bala, 225
Horary Astrology, 363

Index

367

Kshatriyas, 28, 29, 58
Kshema, 172
Kshobhita Avastha, 273
Kshudhita Avastha, 273
Kundali, 64
Kurma, 2, 13
L
Lagna, 65, 129
Lagnadhipati, 125
Lajjita Avastha, 271
Lajjitaadi Avasthas, 271,
296
Lakshmi, 18, 20, 211
Leo, 310
Letters, of the Planets, 49
Levels, 62
Libra, 308
M
Madhya, 232, 233
Maha Dasa, 229, 231, 248
Maha Yoga, 210
Maitra, 172
Malefics, 37-39
Mantras, 54
Manusha, 176, 182
Mars, 101, 128, 189, 235,
258, 259, 298, 302, 304,
312, 340, 344
Masa Bala, 225
Masculine, 30, 54, 60
Matsya, 2, 16
Maturation Age, of the
Planets, 33
Medical Astrology, 171
Mercury, 102, 128, 189,
236, 258, 259, 299, 302,
312, 340, 345
Misra Yoga, 249, 260
Modality, 57, 62
Moksha, 109, 176, 179
Moola, 47, 183

Moolatrikona, 75, 81, 124,
249
Moon, 76, 101, 127, 169172, 189, 229, 235, 250,
258, 264, 269, 297, 302,
312, 339, 344
Movable Rasis, 57, 203
Mrityubhaga, 264
Mudita Avastha, 93, 274
Muhurtha, 45, 363
Mutable Rasis, 57
N
Naasa, 177, 183
Naisargika Bala, 226
Nakshatra Tables, 174
Nakshatras, 51, 168, 169,
192, 208, 217, 221
Nakshatras, Activity, 176,
182
Nakshatras, and Letters,
188
Nakshatras, Basis Above
and Below, 175, 181
Nakshatras, Body Parts,
177, 184
Nakshatras, Caste, 176,
179
Nakshatras, Deities, 175,
180
Nakshatras, Dhatu, etc.,
183
Nakshatras, Directions,
183
Nakshatras, Doshas, 184
Nakshatras, Facing, 182
Nakshatras, Gunas, 175,
179
Nakshatras, Lords, 168,
178
Nakshatras, Meaning, 178
Nakshatras, Miscellaneous
Articles, 185
Nakshatras, Nature, 176,
182

Nakshatras, Number of
Stars, 176, 182
Nakshatras, People,
Professions, 186
Nakshatras, Place, 183
Nakshatras, Race, 176,
182
Nakshatras,
Shape/Symbol, 179
Nakshatras, Sex, 176, 182
Nakshatras, Shakti, 175,
180
Nakshatras, Tri-Murthi,
177, 183
Nama Nakshatras, 188
Narasimha, 2, 5
Nathonnatha Bala, 224
Natural Relationships, 75
Navamsa, 197, 212, 217,
221, 268
Neechabhanga Raja
Yogas, 86, 219
Neptune, 353, 356
Netrapani Avastha, 277,
283
Neutral’s Rasi, 83
Nidraa Avastha, 277, 293
Nipeedita Avastha, 94
Nodes, 1
North Indian Chart, 74,
222
Nrityalipsa Avastha, 277,
291
O
Ojayugmarasyamsa Bala,
223
Orbs of Influence, 350
Outer Planets, 51, 353
Outer Planets, Glyphs,
360
Own Rasi, 81, 249
P

Vedic Astrology Primer
Pada, 217
Paksha, 45
Paksha Bala, 224, 250
Panaparas, 107
Parama Maitra, 172
Parasurama, 2, 11, 283
Parivartana Yoga, 208
Period of Life, 45
Persons, of the Planets, 43
Pisces, 276, 310
Pitta, 31-32, 61, 177, 184
Places, of Nakshatras, 183
Planetary Aspects, 193,
207, 262, 268, 351
Planetary Relationships,
75, 190
Planetary Relationships,
Compound, 78
Planetary Relationships,
Temporary, 77
Planetary Types, 50
Planetary War, 94, 226
Planets, Age, 33
Planets, Astronomical
Data, 22
Planets, Avatars of, 2
Planets, Benefics and
Malefics, 37
Planets, Body Tissues, 39
Planets, Cabinet, 25
Planets, Caste, 28
Planets, Chief Aspect, 23
Planets, Clothes, 48
Planets, Colors, 30
Planets, Deities, 18
Planets, Descriptions, 3537
Planets, Developmental
Qualities, 297
Planets, Directions, 48
Planets, Five Elements, 41
Planets, Gemstones, 48
Planets, Glyphs, 52
Planets, Gunas, 26, 28
Planets, Letters, 49

368

Planets, Maturation Age,
33
Planets, Outer, 353
Planets, Period of Life, 45
Planets, Persons, 43
Planets, Residence, 33
Planets, Sanskrit Names,
52
Planets, Seasons, 46
Planets, Senses, 47
Planets, Sex, 30
Planets, Sight, 32
Planets, Substances, 47
Planets, Taste, 32
Planets, Time Periods, 45
Planets, Trees, 41
Planets, Vedas, 45
Planets, Weekdays, 1
Pluto, 353, 356
Prakaashana Avastha, 277,
284
Prana Dasa, 231, 248
Prasna, 363
Pratyak, 172
Pratyantar Dasa, 231, 248
Prishtodaya, 59
Psychology, 231
R
Rahu, 1, 51, 76, 84, 106,
196, 212, 235, 243, 244,
247, 259, 262, 301, 302,
303, 312, 313, 348, 354,
359
Raja Yogas, 211
Rajas, 26, 27, 28, 58
Rajasic, 175
Rakshasa, 176, 182
Rama, 2
Rasi Aspects, 84, 197, 203,
207, 262, 268, 351
Rasi Chakra, 118, 170
Rasi Tables, 61-62
Rasis, 53, 81

Rasis, Body Parts, 60, 63,
80
Rasis, Body Size, 59
Rasis, Body, 63
Rasis, Caste, 62
Rasis, Color, 62
Rasis, Day/Night Strong,
59, 62
Rasis, Descriptive
Symbols, 55
Rasis, Directions, 62, 204
Rasis, Dosha, 61, 62
Rasis, Elements, 56, 57,
62
Rasis, Glyphs, 64
Rasis, Gunas, 58, 62
Rasis, Important Rasis,
61
Rasis, Legs, 60, 63
Rasis, Length, 60, 63
Rasis, Level, 62
Rasis, Limbs of
Kalapurusha, 63
Rasis, Modality, 57, 62
Rasis, Odd/Even, 60, 62
Rasis, of the Planets, 49
Rasis, Residence, 63
Rasis, Rising with Head
or Tail, 59, 62
Rasis, Sanskrit Names, 64
Remedials, 54, 363
Residences, 33, 63
Retrograde, 87, 95-99
Rikta, 233
Rising with Head or Tail,
62
Rohini, 232
S
Sabhaayaam Vasti
Avastha, 277, 288
Sachi Devi, 18, 19
Sadhaka, 172
Sagittarius, 309
Sambandha, 207

Index
Sampat, 172
Samskaras, 224, 232
Sanskrit Names of
Planets, 52
Sanskrit Names of Rasis,
64
Saptavarga Bala, 223
Sattva, 26, 27, 28, 58
Sattvic, 175
Saturn, 104, 128190, 235,
243, 246, 247, 258, 259,
262, 300, 302, 303, 307,
342, 347
Scorpio, 309
Seasons, 46
Senses, 47
Separating Factors, 262
Sex, of the Planets, 30
Shad Bala, 223, 242
Shakta Avastha, 95
Shakti, 175, 180
Shanta Avastha, 93
Shayana Avastha, 277,
280, 281
Shayanaadi Avasthas, 277,
296
Sight, of the Planets, 32
Sirshodaya, 59
Siva, 177, 183, 357
Skanda, 19
Sookshma Dasa, 231, 248
South Indian Chart, 74
Square, 215
Sri Pati House Chart, 118
Star Chart, 192
Sthana Bala, 223
Sthira Rasis, 57
Subha Yoga, 249, 253, 260
Subramanya, 19
Succedent Houses, 107
Sudras, 28, 29, 58, 176
Sun, 76, 127, 170-172,
189, 234, 258, 259, 262,
297, 302, 338, 343
Svastha Avastha, 93

369

T
Tajika Aspects, 349, 351,
357
Tamas, 26, 27, 28, 58
Tamasic, 175
Tara Bala, 172, 249, 251
Taste, of the Planets, 32
Taurus, 309
Temporary Relationships,
77
Time Periods, 45
Trees of the Planets, 41
Tribhaga Bala, 225
Trikonas, 107
Tri-Murthi, 177, 183, 357
Trines, 107¸122
Trushita Avastha, 272
T-Square, 216
U
Uccha Bala, 223
Ugras, 176
Upachayas, 108
Upavesha Avastha, 277,
282
Uranus, 353, 355
V
Vadha, 172
Vaishyas, 28, 29, 58
Vamana, 2, 9, 245
Varabala, 225
Varaha, 2, 19
Vargas, 217, 362
Vargottama, 218, 249, 252
Varshaphal, 119
Varuna, 18
Vata, 31, 32, 61, 177, 184
Vedas, of the Planets, 45
Venus, 128, 103, 190, 236,
244, 245, 246, 247, 258,

259, 283, 300, 302, 342,
346
Vicheshta, 278, 296
Vikala Avastha, 94
Vimala Yoga, 213
Vimshottari Dasa, 229
Vipareet Raja Yogas, 213
Vipat, 172
Virgo, 310
Virupas. 194
Vishnu, 18, 19, 177, 183,
211, 357
W
Weekdays, 1
Y
Yama, 18, 20
Yoga Karakas, 215
Yoga, Asubha, 249, 253,
260
Yoga, Dainya, 208
Yoga, Harsha, 213
Yoga, Khala, 209
Yoga, Maha, 210
Yoga, Misra, 249, 260
Yoga, Parivartana, 208
Yoga, Subha, 249, 253,
260
Yoga, Vimala, 213
Yogakarakas, 125, 212
Yogakarakas, Raja, 212
Yogas, 252, 362
Yogas, Involving the
Lagna, 205
Yogas, Neechabhanga
Raja Yogas, 86, 219
Yogas, Vipareet Raja, 213
Yuddha Bala, 226
Z
Zodiac, 53, 364

About the Author
Ernst Wilhelm earned a degree in Naturopathy at the age of
twenty-one. After practicing in that field for one year, particularly
Iridology and nutritional counseling, he quit due to believing that
physical well-being was secondary to mental, emotional and spiritual
well-being, and turned his attention instead onto astrology. Since
then he has made an extensive study of the classical texts from India
as well as having studied many texts by Western Astrologers. He now
has a private practice and teaches regular Vedic Astrology classes in
addition to offering comprehensive Vedic Astrology correspondence
classes. He is a regular contributor to Vedic Astrology magazine, and
an American Council of Vedic Astrology certified teacher. He is the
author of Tarot- Bringing Us Closer to the Truth. His current writing
projects include the translation of an important Sanskrit astrology
text- Upadesa Sutras, and books on Yogas and Relationship
Compatibility, and he is also developing, Käla- Vedic Astrology
Software in partnership with his Indian wife.

Vault of the Heavens
Classes
All the Techniques and Principles from this
Book
Taught and Illustrated
on
Audio or Video Cassette
Extensive classes on Vimshottari Dasa,
Nakshatras, Aspects, Yogakarakas, Judging the
Horoscope, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu, etc.
Please visit our website for more information.

www.vedic-astrology.net

Käla- Vedic Astrology
Software
Designed and Engineered by Ernst Wilhelm, author of Vault of the Heavens

With KÄLA Vedic Astrology Software you can calculate
the positions of any planet for a 10,800 year range, from 5,400
BC - 5,400 AD, using the SWISS EPHEMERIS, the
core of which is a compression of NASA's state-of-the-art,
JPL-Ephemeris, the most accurate calculations available in
any Vedic Astrology software.
User Friendly, Customizable Interface & Printouts
Searches thousands of specialized astrological combinations,
A great learning tool!

Please visit our website for more information, and
a free Demo with your Birth Chart.

www.vedic-astrology.net

